---
layout: post
title: "Day 9897"
date: "2019-07-25 22:22:25 +0530"
tags:
  - interview
  - day
  - python
  - jio
  - set
  - pycon_taiwaan
---

## Morning

I got up at 8.00 AM. After waking up, I did breakfast mean a while washed pillow
cover, bad sheet and blanket. These things were too much dirty. I eat Sunfeast
zero maida and zero sugar digestive biscuit with milk poured with honey.


## First half

### Dogs and Cats problem

I tried to write a solution for Dogs and Cats problem given by Akshit Yesterday.
This problem was from CodeChef. It is almost 5 years since I used CodeChef. I
wasn't aware how it is executing Python code. Do I have to take `STDIN` at module
level code or I should just call `input()` anywhere?

I first took number of test cases value and converted it into `int` like below
code.


```python
number_of_test_cases = int(input(''))
print(number_of_test_cases)
```

It gave me below error.

```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "./prog.py", line 1, in <module>
  EOFError: EOF when reading a line
```

I don't know why the hell CodeChef is giving me this error. I went through their
wikipedia page and observed sample code for Python and it is taking `STDIN` like
I have done. I observed accepted solutions which are written in Python version I
am using, and it is taking number of test cases like my code. This clearly seems
like a bug. If I remember correctly, I have informed them regarding this bug,
but I am not sure. At present this bug is not fixed and I am getting the same
result. CodeChef was not like this before. It was a great tool, but now it seems
their quality is degraded.

### Unique Paths

I found Leetcode question which was given as a problem to me by Akshit day
before Yesterday. This was a [problem][leetcode_unique_paths]. At the time of
solving this over a white board, this looked like a Backtracking problem, but
when I actually solved it, it was more efficiently solved using with Dynamic
programming. I ended up solving this problem in a few minutes.
[Here][unique_paths_pr] is my PR for this problem.


### O4S first round interview

I was ready sharp at 11.45 AM and suddenly the electricity went off. I quickly
rushed to co-working space. I waited till 12.10 PM, but no one came at a link
shared with me by a HR. I tried informing her over an email and she called me by
saying that I told her that I am not available. After that she told me that it
was not scheduled at this time. She talked round and round. Then I clearly told
her that I am available and I have never told that I am not available. She then
told me that I should give her some time to figure out things. After 15 minutes,
she told me that am I available at 1 PM? I confirmed my availability with her
and accepted a new invitation shared by her.

#### Design a Set in Python

This was a problem given by my interviewer. He told that I should implement a
class which accepts elements in List and it constructs `Set` out of it. My
implement should provide a functionality to intersect two sets, union two sets
and differentiate two sets. He told that at present we are taking two, but if we
have enough time then I should try to convert it to take any numbers sets for
intersection and union operation. He mentioned that I can't use built-in `set`
class, but  I am allowed to data structures like `List` and `Dictionary`.

Because he allowed me to use a dictionary, it became an easy job to implement
this functionality. I followed Test driven development approach. I write test
case for single functionality first and then wrote actual implementation for it.
This kind of approach is what I have practiced from long time.

Below is a code I wrote as an implementation of custom Set class.

```python
#! /usr/bin/env python
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

from typing import List

Numbers = List[int]


class Set:
    """Provides Mathematical set"""

    def __init__(self, numbers: Numbers):
        self._numbers = {}
        for number in numbers:
            self._numbers[number] = 0

    @classmethod
    def intersect(cls, set_obj1, set_obj2):
        """O(set_obj1) = O(n)"""
        common_numbers = []
        for number in set_obj1._numbers.keys():
            if number in set_obj2._numbers:
                common_numbers.append(number)
        return Set(common_numbers)

    @classmethod
    def union(cls, set_obj1, set_obj2):
        """O(set_obj1 + set_obj2)"""
        numbers = list(set_obj1._numbers.keys())
        for number in set_obj2._numbers.keys():
            numbers.append(number)
        return Set(numbers)

    @classmethod
    def diff(cls, set_obj1, set_obj2):
        numbers = []
        for number in set_obj1._numbers.keys():
            if number not in set_obj2._numbers:
                numbers.append(number)
        return Set(numbers)

    def get_list(self):
        return list(self._numbers.keys())

    def __eq__(self, set_obj):
        if len(self._numbers) != len(set_obj._numbers):
            return False
        for number in self._numbers:
            if number not in set_obj._numbers:
                return False
        return True
```

Below is a unit-level test cases I wrote for my `Set` class.

```python
#! /usr/bin/env python
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

from ..custom_set import Set


def test_set_is_able_to_initialize():
    sample_inputs = (
        ([1, 1, 2, 3, 4], [1, 2, 3, 4]),
        ([], []),
        ([-1, 2, 3, -2, 10, -2], [-1, 2, 3, -2, 10])
    )
    for sample_input, expected_elements in sample_inputs:
        s1 = Set(sample_input)
        assert s1.get_list() == expected_elements


def test_set_equalto_operation():
    sample_inputs = (
        (Set([]), Set([]), True),
        (Set([-1, -2]), Set([]), False),
        (Set([-1, -2, -2, -3]), Set([-2, -2, -1]), False),
        (Set([10]), Set([20]), False),
        (Set([11, 12]), Set([11, 12]), True),
        (Set([12, 11, -1]), Set([-1, 11, 12]), True)
    )
    for set_1, set_2, expected_answer in sample_inputs:
        answer = set_1 == set_2
        assert answer == expected_answer


def test_set_intersection():
    sample_inputs = (
        (Set([1, 1, 2, 0]), Set([1, 4, 2, 6]), Set([1, 2])),
        (Set([]), Set([]), Set([])),
        (Set([-1, 0, 10, -2, -3]), Set([-1, -2, -3]), Set([-1, -2, -3])),
    )

    for set_1, set_2, expected_set in sample_inputs:
        assert Set.intersect(set_1, set_2) == expected_set


def test_set_union():
    sample_inputs = (
        (Set([1, -1, 0]), Set([1, 2, 3]), Set([1, -1, 0, 2, 3])),
        (Set([]), Set([]), Set([])),
        (Set([-1, -1, -1]), Set([-2, -2, -2]), Set([-1, -2])),
        (
            Set([0, 1, 10, 9]),
            Set([100, 1200, 30]),
            Set([0, 1, 10, 9, 100, 1200, 30])
        )
    )
    for set_1, set_2, expected_set in sample_inputs:
        assert Set.union(set_1, set_2) == expected_set


def test_set_diff():
    sample_inputs = (
        (Set([1, 2, 1, 23]), Set([1, 2]), Set([23])),
        (Set([]), Set([]), Set([])),
        (Set([-10, 9, 10]), Set([1, 2]), Set([-10, 9, 10])),
        (Set([-1]), Set([-1]), Set([])),
    )
    for set_1, set_2, expected_set in sample_inputs:
        assert Set.diff(set_1, set_2) == expected_set
```

These test cases are based on `Pytest` testing framework of Python.

This I coded in around 40 minutes. He first asked me to speak time complexities
of given functions. I wrote it as a part of doc strings. Then an interviewer
asked me about my personal interests, reason to leave my present employment, my
interest to join present company etc.

As a feedback, he told that I am good in doing by writing tests first approach.
And he added that I should have coded other magic methods like `__repr__` and
`__str__` methods for my `Set` class because this will be used as a library. He
mentioned regarding coding intersection, union and difference as a functions
rather than class level methods. I didn't understood what he pointed out here. I
believe bare functions do not make sense. Related methods are more coupled via
class.

He mentioned that he will pass me in this round and shared my interest to move
forward with the company for second round which will be a system design round.
That will be take over collaborative editor. I suggested Google drawing as a
tool for this purpose.

Then we thanked each other and wished our days will go good.

After one hour, HR cofirmed my availability for next round. I told her that I am
avaiable on Monday. She agreed to scedule next round at the same time on Monday.


## Second half

### Relince Jio interview - Telephonic round

There were two interviewers in a panel. Both of them asked couple of questions.
First they started with Python fundamentals, then they moved to Django
fundamentals, that's it.

Below were a question irrespective of its order they asked me.


#### Python

* What are static methods and static variable in Python? How static methods are
different from class methods?

    I was blank here. I very early read about static methods. I realised that I
    have to revise this again.

* Suppose there is class A and class B and class C is a derived class which
inherits both class A and class B. The class A and class B have common method in
it. Which method will class C get (How method resolution will work)?

    This question was also asked to me at VMware during the year 2017. I had
    read this very early and truely I forgot. The only thing I remembered is,
    method resolution in Python 2 and Python 3 is different. And it was
    something like Star resolution in Python 3. I will revise this again
    tomorrow.

* If you have wrote one web service in Python, now you want to distribute it to
someone, but you don't want to share your source code. They should only be able
to run it similar to "*.jar" files in Java. How would you do that in Python?

    I was also blank here initially, then I remembered that `twb` at #emacs
    pointed out that there is a way to generate `tar` of Python module and it is
    also possible to run it. I spoke that approach and told that `setup.py` file
    which is based on `distutil` module is required. Then you can do whatever
    platform related packaging utility is there on it.

* What is a difference between Tuple and Dictionary?

* What is difference between Python and Java?

* What is difference between interpreted and compiled language?


#### Django

* Explain Django as MVC framework. Define which components of it belongs to MVC
pattern.

* How Django is authenticating a client?

* How Django API should be authenticated?

I thanked both of them for giving me this opportunity and affording their best
to test my knowledge. When I asked him regarding giving me suggestions in areas
I should improve, he told me that, "Every day is a new learning and you should
learn and get better." This answer from him was bizzare. He even didn't know
what am I asking. Jio clearly seems a next TCS to me. Who asks such poor
questions?

After completion of it, they called me back and told me that I will get an
assignment over email which I have to complete in one week.

### Pycon Taiwaan

PyCon Taiwaan has agreed to sponsor my staying and conference ticket. They
mentioned that if I am agree, I have to book an hotel before 31st of this month.
They will give me referal code only after that I have to buy conference ticket.
One more thing they mentioned that they are thikning for sponsoring my travel
grant. I hope they will pass it too!

## Tomorrow

* Revise what is a static method in Python.
* Read how method resolution works in Python 2 and 3.

I am happy that tomorrow I will attend 'Evaluationary desgins` workshop by
ThoughtWorks. I was waiting for this workshop from long time. It is a two day
workshop in which they will teach, discuss regarding object oriented design
patterns. I hope I perform well and able to learn something interesting from
this workshop.

[leetcode_unique_paths]: https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-paths/
[unique_paths_pr]: https://github.com/ultimatecoder/leetcode/pull/43
