---
layout: post
title: "Day 9889"
date: "2019-07-17 21:12:04 +0530"
tags:
  - bank
  - daily
  - circle_life
  - hackkerrank
  - array
  - competitive
  - programming
---


## Morning

I woke up round 6.30 AM. After waking up, I browsed Twitter for almost 1 hour.
Then I felt hungry, so I bought 3 pouches of ID filter coffee decoction. I drank
that with half letter of milk poured with 10 ML of honey. I chosen to drink
strong coffee because I have decided to take "Circle.Life" hiring challenge. It
was little early for restaurants to open. I was not in a mood to spent 200 bucks
for a breakfast. Nearby kirana shop was not having digestive biscuits., so I
decided to drink coffee with milk. It worked for few minutes, but I was not
feeling normal.


### Circle.life Hiring test on Hackerrank

This test was done at online portal of the Hackerrank. It was 90 minutes test
which included 3 questions. One question of Database query and two question of
data structure and algorithms.

I skipped first question which was of Data base question and decided to solve it
last. I focused on second question which was looking like a simple question, but
I took more than 85 minutes to solve it. That question was asking to find
maximum difference between two pairs where index i < index i and a[i] < a[j]
where a is a sequence of numbers. If there is no such pairs than the function
should return -1.

I implemented with a bruit force approach first. I first calculate maximum
difference by iterating on pairs of numbers. Then I call the
`maximum_difference()` function recursively by removing last number from a set
of numbers. I compare maximum difference of sub sequence with maximum difference
of current pair. I return maximum from both differences.

This solution was out for exceeding time limit. This recursive solution is
O(n^2). Because it recursively calls `maximum_difference()` function for each
elements of an array, space complexity of this is O(n).

After my careful observation, I could see that this problem could be solved in
O(n) time complexity because you don't have to call any function, space
complexity will be O(1).

This was around initial 10 minutes. Rest of my time I spent on iterating through
code by doing trial and error. The problem itself isn't look that hard. It
doesn't include anything serious at all. From 14 test cases, I was able to pass
12, but it was stuck at 2 test cases. Input, Output of those test cases were
hidden. This took more time because it was only telling that test case number 13
and 14 are broken, but it was telling what inputs are broken and what is an
expected output.

Even if it is a hiring challenge, I don't think broken test cases should be
hidden. This eat entire remaining minutes and I wasn't able to solve first left
one or second question.

I am sure the company will not accept me because of my poor performance. I was
not able to solve any problem in given minutes.


## First half

Went to bank, told them to update my address. According to a representative, a
procedure to update address will take 10 working days. That includes one person
visiting home and confirm that person is living on given address. I applied for
updating my address.

Because this procedure will take time, I found another weak way to solve this. I
opened another account at that bank, by giving address proof of current address
and it took 2 hours to give me photo passbook. The only problem with this
approach is that I will not have any transaction history. An officer did
signature and stamp along with address at new passbook. This photo passbook I
require for showing address proof for my current address.


## Second half

I tried to find a similar question to which I was stuck at morning at Leetcode
or GeeksforGeeks. Fortunately I found it. I was finalized by writing definition
and I got a call from Lenovo care that my laptop is ready for pickup.

I rushed to Lenovo care, it took some 60 rupees of auto to travel from store
location to metro and visa versa.

Lenovo service center, replaced my keyboard and entire low body part. This was
replaced just because my keyboard was not working. I have to be careful in
future, because if keyboard key is broken or due to any technical error if I
have to replace it, then lower part of body will also be replaced.


#### Laptop warranty

10 days were remaining for my completion of my warranty. Parts of this laptop
are costly, so I decided to purchase 2 years additional warranty from the store.
It costed me around 6, 700 rupees.


## Evening

I was back around 6.30 PM from co-working space. I decided to continue my in
progress solution of Maximum difference problem.


## Tomorrow

* Collect internet bill of ACT internet and make them signed duly
* Inquire for changing address of ICICI bank.
* Announce that you want to sale your PyData ticket
* Purchase Washing machine via Amazon 0% interest
* Re-read passport rules
