---
layout: post
title: "Day 9894"
date: "2019-07-22 20:47:55 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - design_patterns
  - sacred_games
---

## Morning

I woke up around 7.30 AM. After waking up, I scrolled Twitter for almost 1 hour.
I have found solution for my this problem. If I am not using Smart phone, I can
control my mind from being fucked from social media or anything. Because my old
featured phone is not working properly, I have ordered a new featured phone.
After tomorrow, I will only use smartphone when it is necessary to use it. Rest
of the time, I will use my featured phone.


## First half

### Clean code

I watched first episode of Clean code video tutorials by Uncle Bob
[uncle_bob_clean_code].  This is a paid series of videos and its first episode
is available for free. In that introductory video, Uncle bob explains importance
of clean architecture. He gave a few example of companies who got troubles and
shut down too just because they have not crafted their code cleanly.

He mentioned that while starting any software, things go smooth. You are able to
push/ship features quickly as possible, but after time when your code becomes
messy and that messiness makes you slower and slower to publish new features or
update existing one. Hiring new manpower can't solve this problem because those
new and existing one create a new mess again. A new team whose responsibility to
re-design or improve architecture looses when new features are keep popping. No
one should freeze codebase from adding new features because new features or
fixing existing one will bring business. There are no limits in improving any
software.

According to Uncle Bob, the only solution to this problem is to try to define,
design a clean architecture at any level.

During this video, he didn't described any methods or detailed explanations on
topics, but he highlighted problems of messy code and unclean architecture.


### Design patterns Gang of Four

#### What is design pattern?

A design pattern is a way to avoid certain future hurdles when objects
communicate with each other. A pattern is a way which has been commonly observed
in code and it has be defined in a way that it can be applied to any similar
situations in future.

By applying these patterns, architects can get certain benefits from it. A
pattern can not be applied to anywhere. It can only apply at where certain
characteristic of code is there.

All earlier design patterns described by Gang of Four are categorized in three
categories.

1. Creational design patterns
2. Behavioural design patterns
3. Structural design patterns


#### Creational design patterns

Patterns under this category are defining object or class creation. It can
provide various higher level patterns which can help to modify, or produce class
or objects.

Example under this categories are Singleton pattern, Factory pattern, etc.

### Sub-categories of Design patterns

I have only observed a few from Creational design patterns category. I will be a
good idea to understand one pattern from each of these categories. There are two
sub-types to this categories.

1. Class based
2. Object based


#### Class based

In this category, pattern is defined for modifying class level behaviour. It
will handled at compile time.

#### Object based

This type of patterns happens at run-time. It is responsible for producing
objects.


### Sacred Games

I spent around 60 minutes today watching Sacred Games dialog over YouTube. This
is a total waste of time. I am not counting my time wasted via doing Twitter or
re-checking emails or scrolling LinkedIn for no reasons. These minutes are
important. At the end of the day, I am not able to achieve what I wanted to or
what I have planned. I have to preserve my mind from being fucked by these
mediums.


### Factory Method

I tried to read it again. I understood a concept, but I am unable to get an
exact use of it. I will re-read it and I will implement this pattern in Python
programming.


## Second Half

### Builder

I was skimming description of Builder method from oodesign. I read a few lines,
but I was unable to understand it. I will try to re-read it tomorrow.

### Nokia 105

I ordered Nokia 105 mobile for myself. I was frustrated from using smart phone.
My old Nokia featured phone is working, but it is creating a lot of troubles. I
exchanged my old Lenovo Vibe P1M phone with this phone and I have to 350 rupees
extra for this new phone. That's completely fine for me.

### Martin Fowler (Patterns of Enterprise Architecture)

This article is long. While reading it, I am unable to get an exact meaning of
it. The author has explained an example.

Mr. Fowler gave an example of a software which provides various features for
doing a search on Movies. For finding a list of movies via a name of director,
First it loads all movie names and then it filters movies having expected
directors. Here Mr. Fowler takes a source of movies from a txt file. He explains
that these source can be anything. A text file, or from database or API call.
Now, he will explain an improved version of this in which rather than static
file reading code, it becomes more restructured and easy to customize. Tomorrow
I will continue reading this.

## Tomorrow

After struggling for almost 6 months, I have bought a washing machine. I want to
remain clean. Washing clothes is a trouble for me. I couldn't assigned a
dedicated time for washing clothes, and as a result it created a dirty image of
me. I wore lot of my new clothes again and again. I myself didn't put any
efforts in cleaning my room. After buying a machine, I will wash clothes very
often and I will represent myself more sophisticatedly.


[uncle_bob_clean_code]: https://cleancoders.com/episode/clean-code-episode-1/
