---
layout: post
title: "Day 9907"
date: "2019-08-04 21:51:53 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - an_introduction_to_object_oriented_programming
---

## Morning

I woke up at 8.30 AM. After waking up, I spent some time talking with my fiance.
After that I again slept until 10.30 AM. I skipped bathing Today, because I
didn't got enough motivation for bathing.


## First half

I tried to complete last two sections of Chapter 1, Thinking Object Oriented, An
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming, T.budd.

After that I spent rest of my time answering self study questions and solving
exercises. Here is an in-progress [branch][thinking_object_oriented_solutions].
I was able to write answers to 98% of them. I will take a fresh observation to
it tomorrow.


## Second half

I had planned to achieve lot of things in this part, but I ended up without
achieving any of them. I had planned to implement left over implementation of
linked list, then complete Python dictionary implementation, Iron pair of formal
clothes, Solve Trie data structure problems.

All of my this time was invested in thinking more about interfaces. What is a
need for an interface. When constructing a solution with interface is
beneficiary over a solution without using it. Should I create an interface when
I have only one concrete implementation of it or not. And then I read Wikipedia
page of interface, description given at An Introduction to Object Oriented
Programming.

Quick observation says that interfaces should be defined to make a clear
distinction of an API of class objects. Each related concrete classes will
follow same interface. Rather than instantiating related classes directly a
class should be instantiated via Factory method based implementation. Using this
approach, it is clear that whatever instance is coming out of a factory will
follow that interface.

While reading the Design Patterns book, I am confused in understanding a
difference between Factory methods and Abstract Factory. This is because I have
quickly tried to read them. I will try to re-read them Tomorrow.

[Here][trie_data_structure] is an in-progress work of developing Node object of
Trie data structure.


## Tomorrow

* At sharp 11 AM I have an interview with Relince JIO team member. Agenda is to
discuss my development on task given by them.

* Tomorrow at 12 AM I have an interview with Commercial IQ. I hope both of this
do not collide with each other.

* Prepare documents require for applying a visa of Taiwan.

* Complete Trie exercises.

* Skim answers and solutions written for Thinking Object Oriented chapter of An
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming.

* Complete solutions for An introduction to Algorithm book Direct Address Table
exercises.

[thinking_object_oriented_solutions]: https://github.com/ultimatecoder/an-introduction-to-object-oriented-programming-solutions/tree/master-add-solutions-for-chapter-one
[trie_data_structure]: https://github.com/ultimatecoder/data-structures/tree/master-add-trie
