---
layout: post
title: "Day 9884"
date: "2019-07-12 21:11:34 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - debian
  - python
  - packaging
---

## Morning

I woke up around 8.00 AM After waking up I did Twitter for almost 1 hour. I
cleaned Bathroom after almost 1 month. It was too dirty, I should clean my
bathroom at least once a week or twice a week.


## First half

I was confused with my progress. I was not sure, a way I have chosen is correct
or not because debian packaging was not building as per the way I was expecting.
Yesterday, I was able to wrap my module as a Python package. Today morning I
tried creating a `debian` meta folder using `dh_make` command. I followed below
steps to achieve my this goal.

I created a source distribution of Python package using below command

```
python3 setup.py sdist
```

Above command will create a `dist` folder at the directory. This folder will
have `<package-name>-<version>.tar.gz` archive of my code.


`dh_make` command will expect a source tar ball in
`<package-name>_<version>.orig.tar.gz` format. To accommodate that, I copied
existing archive with expected name format by `dh_make`.

Then I extract the given source via below tar command

```
tar -xf <package-name>-<version>.tar.gz
```

This created a folder named `<package-name>-<version>`.

Then I changed the current directory to extracted directory of the package.

After that, I call `dh_make` to initialize a Debian meta directory inside my
source folder.

This utility asked me a question in which it requested me to specify the type of
the package.

I specified my package as a `single` package.

If the `dh_make` utility is successfully completed then you will fine `debian`
folder along with meta files inside it.

To build my package with [Pybuild][pybuild], I have to override my
`debian/rules` file as below.

```
`dh ... --with python3 --buildsystem=pybuild
```

Here, extra arguments `--with` and `--buildsystem` will do most of the work.

I have to also specify name of my package by declaring below environment
variable.

```
extract PYBUILD_NAME=<name-of-module>
```

This should be at a beginning of `debian/rules` file.

After adding that, I specified Python version as a dependency of my package in
`debin/controls` file. I have to add whichever version of Python interpreter my
package is dependent on at `Build-deps` attribute.

I specified `python3` at `Build-deps` attribute of file `debian/controls` file.

After I compiled my Debian package using below command:

```
debuild -us -uc
```

But it failed because Debian is based on Python 3.5 version and my code was
using format strings which is introduced at Python 3.6.

To solve this problem, I went back, replaced `fstrings` with old formatted
string and copied `debian` folder to base, removed `dist` folder, re-created the
source distribution, generated `<package-name>_<version>.orig.tar.gz` folder,
extracted it, copied my `debian` meta folder inside a source, and finally
re-compiled using `debuild` utility.

Using this, I was able to compile a `Debian` package for architecture `amd64`. I
then installed that package using

```
sudo debi
```

This installed my package to `/usr/lib/python3.5/dist-utils/<package-name>`.

When I open Python3 interpreter and try to import abhimanyu, it was able to do
it.


## Second half


After getting some success of compiling a Debian package, I structured my
existing app to have a command line entry point which starts and stops given
server.


I create one Python source code file inside my package and used `argparse`
module of Python to accept port number as a command line argument. That script
was also capable of displaying version number and a small help.

I added that script as a `entry_points` argument of my `setup.py` file and
marked it as a `console_scripts`. I mapped to `main` function of `abhimanyu.cli`
file.

After doing this, when I build and installed my Python package locally using
below command

```
pip install -e .
```
I was able to run commands from that script. Then I tried to see how is that
working with my existing configuration of building a Debian package.

I repeated the same procedure, and luckily my package was able to copy that
console script to `/usr/bin` of my Debian installation. But when I tried to run
it, it was giving some Python argument error. I will try to figure out this
tomorrow or tomorrow evening.


## Possible improvements

Even though, I have tried to accept a port number from a command line utility, I
could have set it via configuration file like `abhimanyu.cfg`. My user can
override this file and set whatever value of port they wanted.

I have already planned to accept a path of SQLite database via configuration
file.


## Tomorrow


* Configure a vagrant instance which leaves files inside a folder. At present, a
folder from where source code is there is mounted at `/vagrant` point inside a
virtual machine, but whatever files or folder I create inside `/vagrant` folder
are removed and not coming once I shutdown or destroy my vm. It would be a good
idea to make it persistent so that meta folders like `debian` via `dh_make` are
preserved.

* Identify why command line utility is getting a problem as a Debian package.

* Learn wrapping a package as Debian package.

[pybuild]: 
