---
layout: post
title: "Day progress 9886"
date: "2019-07-14 21:33:22 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - nowork
---

## Morning

I woke up around 11 AM. This is because I took less sleep from last few days.


## After Noon

I decided to buy few pair of formal clothes because I will try to appear in
interviews at various companies. On this 26th and 27th I will attend an
"Evolutionary Design" workshop by ThoughtWorks Bangalore. They will move forward
with a candidate which will perform better during this workshop. The Programming
Interview Exposed book strictly recommending to wear a formal clothes during
interview.

I decided to look stores on Indirangar. Went to Van Hussain stores. Didn't find
anything I was looking for. Finally I went to my old and favourite Brandfactory.

I bought two formal shirts. One of Van Hussain and one of Turtle. I bought one
formal pent of Van Hussain. One pair of sleepers of Convers brand.

It took around 11.30 AM to 4 PM for travelling to Brandfactory, Marathalli from
my home, collect and try clothes, bill them and do alteration on pent. Nearly
4 hours and 30 minutes.

I came home and then did video call with family members. It was enjoyable to
talk with them and see them. I feel good because they are well.


## Evening

I went to garden at Ulsoor lake, I drank two black tea from a cafe inside a
garden. It was refreshing to sit and watch large lake from your eyes. It started
drizzling around 7 PM.

I waited until the rain in either slow or stopped. When it stopped a bit, I
decided to walk and take food at any random place.

I found Mummy Dhaba at first floor on the road where Tree top restaurant and
hotel is located. Eat Paneer tika masala and two plain phullka roti. After that
came back home and felt like I will sleep in a minute.


## Tomorrow

* Book ticket for PyData New Delhi
* Book ticket for Home
* Book urgent passport renewal date
* Apply at Verloop open position of Software Engineer
* Plan to read resources shared by a HR of ThoughtWorks for workshop
