---
layout: post
title: "Day 9825"
date: "2019-05-14 23:35:44 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - backtrack
---

## Yoga class and a little exercise

I woke up late Today morning. This happen because I slept late Yesterday night.
Main reason was late night talk with my fiance. You can't avoid that. She has a
gym in the morning. How can one manage to wake up early and sleep late. I was
talking with her until 1 AM. We had a little fight because she didn't allowed to
hang up the call. The talk was nothing serious and only nonsense. Every day I
have to listen what her friends are doing, what their colleges are doing, what
her boss is doing, what her HR is doing, what her parents are doing. What she is
doing, what she is eating and many things more. I have no interest in listening
it, but I have not given any choice. If I don't talk, sorry actually listen her
then I am considered as rude and the one who is only caring about his life. I
care for her, but I am not interested in listening those bullshit. I have a lot
of other important things to do. This nonsense conversation keeps going on hours
and hours and hours. Even after those many hours, I am not allowed to hang up so
that I can sleep. Healthy brain is important for sleep. I need at least 8 hours
of sleep. I don't know there is any solution for this. I have to bear it for my
life. I have expressed my dislike many times to her, but it is like talking with
rock. She is one of the reason I am unable to wake up early.

Today I was managed to put a curfew on coffee after 1 PM. I only consumed Tea.
There were a little effect of this on my brain, but the good thing is I was
feeling sleepy at around 10 PM.

I don't think I will be able to get my this early exercise routine soon, but I
will try my best for it.


## First half

My time invested in travelling, visiting banks. I did nothing in this period.
Total waste of time.


## Second half

I continue solving the Black and White problem using the Backtracking method. I
am facing difficulty in constructing a simple solution using backtracking
algorithm. After spending couple of hours, I was able to write a non broken, but
not expected recursion of backtracking method. According to the problem I have
to calculate number of possible ways in which black and white knight can be
placed on a chess board of N*M matrix. Here N is rows of a Matrix and M is a
column of the Matrix.

After few wrong attempts, I have tried to dive the problem. Below are dependent
steps I will follow to solve this problem. Once one step is completed, I will
modify my solution to achieve next step. Each step is dependent on previous.

1. Construct all the possible positions of both knights when chess board is 2x2.
2. Construct all the positions for N*M Matrix.
3. Convert existing solution which counts all the positions of the knight.
4. Avoid counting positions in which both knights can attack each other.

Below is the code which is duplicating the values of knights.

```python

def backtrack(board, row_index=0, column_index=0):

    if (row_index == len(board)):
        return
    else:
        for knight in ['b', 'w']:
            board[row_index][column_index] = knight
            print(board)
            if (column_index < (len(board[0]) - 1)):
                backtrack(board, row_index, column_index+1)
            else:
                backtrack(board, row_index+1, column_index=0)
        board[row_index][column_index] = None


if __name__ == "__main__":
    board = [
        [None, None],
        [None, None]
    ]
    backtrack(board)
```

This attempt is not constructing the board appropriately. After step one, the
black knight is repeatedly duplicating it self. This is the reason I am unable
to construct the correct positions. May be below approach will move our this
solution closer to goal of step 1 we discussed earlier.


Loop until black knight from starting cell till it is in the last row and last
column
  Loop until white knight is from the cell next to black knight to last shell of
  the board
    Increase the counter
    Resent the board by removing the placed White knight
  Resent the board by removing the placed Black knight

###  Pramp

I attended almost one hour of Pramp session. The connectivity was pathetic. I
disconnected almost 10-15 times during my session. My peer was great that he
bared me.

I observed how my peer is solving the Root problem. In root problem, the user
will give Upper limit and a number. The user has to write a program for finding
the root of number given against the given value of upper limit. For example,
upper limit is 9 and number is 2 then one has to find the square root in which
the value of 9 will come. The precision one has to manage is 0.001. It is a
difficult problem. I have never tried to solve it in my way. I just attended
interview without even knowing much about the problem. I will put my efforts to
solve this in my own way once I am done with this backtracking problem. Sodoku
puzzle is also pending.

I asked to solve a regular expression as a pattern and string problem. In this
problem I have to find weather the given string is a perfect math for given a
regular expression.

```
Implement a regular expression function isMatch that supports the '.' and '*'
symbols. The function receives two strings - text and pattern - and should
return true if the text matches the pattern as a regular expression. For
simplicity, assume that the actual symbols '.' and '*' do not appear in the text
string and are used as special symbols only in the pattern string.

In case you aren’t familiar with regular expressions, the function determines if
the text and pattern are the equal, where the '.' is treated as a single a
character wildcard (see third example), and '*' is matched for a zero or more
sequence of the previous letter (see fourth and fifth examples). For more
information on regular expression matching, see the Regular Expression Wikipedia
page.

Explain your algorithm, and analyze its time and space complexities.

Examples:

input:  text = "aa", pattern = "a" output: false

input:  text = "aa", pattern = "aa" output: true

input:  text = "abc", pattern = "a.c" output: true

input:  text = "abbb", pattern = "ab*" output: true

input:  text = "acd", pattern = "ab*c." output: true
```

Above is the exact definition I asked to solve. According to the interviewer,
the problem can be solved better using Dynamic programming. The part of "*" is
tricky. I have to match all the possible values of estric combination. I don't
know Dynamic programming, but this was looking like a bruiteforce solvable
problem. Below is the code I wrote without testing any bit of it.

```python
def is_match(text, pattern):
  pointer_to_text = 0
  pointer_to_pattern = 0
  
  while (pointer_to_text < len(text) and (pointer_to_pattern < len(pattern))):
    if (
      ((pointer_to_pattern + 1) < len(pattern)) and
      (pattern[pointer_to_pattern+1] == '*')
    ):
      while(pointer[pointer_to_pattern] == text[pointer_to_text]):
        pinter_to_text += 1
      pointer_to_pattern += 2
    elif (
      (text[pointer_to_text] == pattern[pointer_to_pattern]) or
      (pattern[pointer_to_pattern] == '.')
    ):
      pointer_to_text += 1
      pointer_to_pattern += 1
    else:
      return False
  return True
``

Whenever the next character is estric, I looped until at given string until any
new character is found. If the given text is 'accccd' and pattern is 'ac*d' then
my this solution will increase the text pointer until it will reach 'd'
character. This was looking like a working solution for all the problems, but my
peer pointed out the use case in which my solution was breaking. If text is
'abbcb' and pattern is 'ab*bcb' then it is a valid pattern. My solution was
breaking against this condition.

My solution was even broken when loop is exited. Not every time a loop is exited
when it is true.

One thing he pointed out is, I can remove a character from str when there is an
'*' estric or add that character to pattern.

I will first try to solve this problem with a bruite force approach and then I
will try to solve this problem once I have learnt the Dynamic programming.


This was my tiring day. Hope I will get enough hours Tomorrow to concentrate on
backtracking.
