---
layout: post
title: "Day 9882"
date: "2019-07-11 21:53:51 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - python
  - packaging
---

## Morning

I woke up exactly at 8.30 AM. This is not too early for me. I had scheduled an
alarm for 5 AM, but I wasn't able to get up. Tomorrow I will try for sure.


## First half

I watched a talk on [Python packaging by Dave forgac][python_packaging_talk]
given at Pycon U.S. 2017. That talk was good, he pointed out a good resource to
learn Python packaging. One of them was [Python packaging
guide][python_packaging_guide]. This is a guide prepared by packaging user group
of Python. He highlighted to use existing [cookiecutter][cookiecutter] module to
bootstrap the Python project along with the configuration of C.I. and packaging
files. His talk was targeting packaging for a library or Python utility and
sharing it via [PyPI][pypi] with everyone. He mentioned using [tox][tox] to
check the compatibility of the program with multiple Python versions. He also
mentioned that you can use [Testing PyPI][testing_pypi]  to check project
publishing process. This will prevent from publishing publishing garbage at
original Python packaging index.

For publishing documentation of the project, you can use
[Readthedocs][readthedocs] or Github pages.

His talk was good, but it is not relevant for me to solve the problem I am
facing at the moment. I want to wrap a Python web server as a Python package
first and then Debian package.

### Packaging guidelines by Python

`setuptools` is a new and improved version over `distutils` library. One should
use `setuptools` for packaging. This guideline is too confusing. It doesn't give
example for packaging application written in Python where Python interpreter is
the only dependency of the application.

After observing a example, I learnt below points.

### Setup.py

`entry_points`: This is a dictionary, taking key name as an executable name and
value is Python path. Here `console_script` is key of `entry_point` in which all
the scripts that can be executed from console are defined.

Example

```
from setuptools import setup

setup(
  name="Test",
  entry_points={
    'console_scripts': [
      'hello': 'hello.world.cli:main',
    ],
  }
)
```

After installing package from above script, you can run `hello` inside your
virtualenvironment and it will call the `main` function of `cli.py` file under
`hello.world` module. Below is the graph directory

```
hello/
    __init__.py
    world/
        __init__.py
        cli.py
        ```


The `find_packages()` function is used to collect packages which are imported at
various package files. Answer of this is given to `packages` attribute.

I don't know how the 'data' attribute is used in `setup.py` file. The
`include_package_data` attribute can have boolean value.


There is `setup.cfg` file. This file is used to pass various configurations
parameters like version number. I have to look at this file for bumping the
versions.

I am able to maintain my `flask` application as a module from its official
guide. You have to define all the configuration and instance of `app` at
`__init__.py` of module. In our case our module is `abhimanyu`. Instance of
`app` variable should be defined at `__init__.py` of `abhimanyu` so that it can
be called.

At this stage, I have not modularise my flask apps as blue prints which is a
different way to modularize your Flask app.

Below are my confusions at the moment

* How migration of database will be done?
* How my user will be able to provide configuration path of my database?
* Should I add `gunicord` an application level server inside my python package?
* How my user can provide on which port they want to bind an instance of
`abhimanyu`?
* Do I require a command line script which can be started or stopped server?
* How should I do logging and its configuration?


## Japan

Had a detailed talk with that girl who knows Japanese. She said the culture of
Japan is totally different than India. She don't have any contacts in software
engineer so she don't have any idea about the current pay of Japan.

She said it is too difficult to get veg food in Japan. Everything is written,
communicated in Japanese, so knowing only English will be a difficult dealing
locally. She also said that companies do encourage, help in learning Japanese
and government has friendly policies for people who want to learn Japanese. She
also added that people are very supportive to each other. Transportation and in
other technologies Japan is way too forward than India.

She has assured me to share a Facebook group of Indian's living in Japan via
email. She said that it will be good if I ask my further questions to them via
Facebook.

[python_packaging_talk]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qOH-h-EKKac
[python_packaging_guide]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qOH-h-EKKac
[cookiecutter]: https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
[pypi]: https://pypi.org/
[testing_pypi]: https://test.pypi.org/
[tox]: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
