---
layout: post
title: "Day 9827"
date: "2019-05-16 17:21:36 +0530"
---

## Yoga class & Morning Excercises

I woke up at around 11.30 AM. Which is very late for giving a beautify start
for the day. Yes, I missed it today too.


## First half

I tried hard to digest Backtracking. Backtracking is based on Recursion. During
this time I tried to construct a solution for "Constructing all subsets of a
given set" using Backtracking first. This program is given as an example in the
book "Programming challenges". That example is quite confusing. It is written
in C programming language. I myself has converted a working code for that
example in Python. When I tried to re-solve it without looking at that code, I
failed to do so. Backtracking is an algorithm / method which is diffierent for
individual solutions. It is not like the Binary Search algorithm which I can
apply to any solution. Backtracking is a way of doing an Exaustive Search.
Exaustive Search is a method in which the parttern or particular solution is
serached by forming each and every combinations.

I wanted to reach at a level where I can solve Sodoku problem and 8 Queen
problem using Backtracking. I have to get stronger at Recursion. During my
under-graduation, I have used Recursion many times. Since I have joined my job,
I have hardly found any suitable use case for using Recursion. Most of the time
I was able to solve it using Loops.

According to authors of Programming challenges, Backtracking is a method in
which a solution for ith element and store it in vector. We check that the
solution is correct or not. If it is correct, we store it and progress
constructing a solution for i+1 th element. If not, then we remove the stored
solution from the vector. The process of removing un-required solutions is
backtracking.

I was able to solve the "Construct all the subset problem" with loop. I tried
to solve it with Backtracking approach, but I was totally confused. Then I
thought to solve it with Recurison first and then move to Backtracking, but I
was unable to make a working code with Recursion. I decided to solve with just
any approach and then forget it. Yes, I think the author is just showing an
posibility to solve this problem with Backtracking. It is not like this problem
is only solvable with Backtracking. May be I should move forward from this
point or try to construct a solution as per the Backtracking template given in
the book. A template can be applied to any Backtracking solution. One has to
override a methods according to problem. The template is written in C, using
references, pointers in quirky manner.

My next plan is to pick the template explained in the book, read the
description given for the functions and then try to re-write "Construct all sub
sets" problem based on the template. I will not read the solution to stress
myself. Once I am done with that, I will try to solve "Construct all
Permutations" problem using the same approach. If I will face any difficulty
while solving the "Construct all permutations" problem then I will step back to
first solve it with any approach and then with Backtracking template I
referenced earlier in this post. I am unsure about solving Black and White
problem using Backtracking. I will follow this procidure for all the problems
mentioned under the Backtracking chapter. There are a few problem excercises. I
don't have any plans to solve them at the moment.
