---
layout: post
title: "Day progress 9943"
date: "2019-09-09 23:14:30 +0530"
tags:
  - hackerrank
  - relince_jio
  - rakuten
---

## Morning

I woke up around 9:30 AM. I tried to solve some problems from Hackerrank. I
then took a quick bath and rushed to co-working space.


## First half

I solved Hackerrank problems. Today I solved 12 very easy category problems from
Hackerrank.
[Here](https://github.com/ultimatecoder/hackerrank-solutions/issues/4). are
links of solved problems.

I received a HackerEarth test from Rakuten. Rakuten is big company mainly doing
their business in Japan. The task is 1 hour and 35 minutes long. I have to
complete that task with in one week. I have no idea how to prepare for the task.
I will try giving demo test for getting an idea of tasks involved.


## Second half


### Relince Jio

Relince Jio shared an offer later with me. They have given way poor than my
expectation. It is even lower than current offer I have on hand.

I am focusing on solving Hackerrank's interview preparation kit. I am focusing
on solving easy category questions first. Tomorrow I will solve all easy
category questions first and then I will solve all medium category questions.

For Amazon, preparing for Algorithm and Data structure questions is not enough.
I have to solve Object oriented questions and System design questions and non
technical questions in which there are lot of things to which I am not
experienced with. At Grab, I have performed okay in my algorithm and data
structure round, but I was not good enough to crack system design round. This is
my assumption, because I haven't received any feedback regarding my performance
from the Grab team.

With all these, I have to plan for moving to new delhi if nothing works. This
includes booking tickets, finding an option to shifing home luggage and booking
air tickets for Diwali and booking tickets for Pycon also fill description of
poster for Pycon india.

I am flying to Taiwan on this 19th. Before leaving to Taiwan, I need my home
luggage to be packed and equipped. I have to preapre and review my talk which I
will present at Pycon Taiwan.
