---
layout: post
title: "Day 9901"
date: "2019-07-29 14:31:01 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - o4s_interview
  - systemdesign
  - tinyurl
  - relince_jio
---


## Morning

I woke up at 9.00 AM. After doing a little bit Twitter, I thought a bit for
crafting an assignment by Relince Jio. They replied that they are open for
deploying my platform at any level. I decided to go with Docker approach to wrap
my code.

They are requesting to make this system deployable with three stage architecture
like NGINX + App level server. I can use Docker compose for linking each of
them. At that time I decided to progress with wrapping existing into a single
docker container.


### HDFC Bank

My address proof is updated by HDFC bank. I decided to convert my existing
passbook with Photo passbook so that I can represent it as an address proof at
Passport Seva Kendra.


## First Half


### URL shortener (System Design round by O4S)

O4S company has my scheduled my second round based on checking my abilities for
designing a system. It was an hour long round in which I was instructed to
design a system for shortening URLs.

Below were requirements for a service

* Long URL should result in short url which can be given to everyone. This URL
should be unique if same url is entered multiple times. Length of short url
should up to predefined length.

* Short URL should redirect to a long URL.

* It is expected to have 1 billion (10^9) shorten URLs.

* Design a system for reading and writing 1000 (10^3) - 10000 (10^4) concurrent
reads and writes.


#### My approach

I was sure that I have to use a Key-value database for storing records. Why
NoSQL key-value because that way, I can maintain all unique hash-codes and map
them to a URL in O(1).

Because I have to generate a unique short url even if a given URL hash requested
earlier, I can achieve this by adding a salt value. Salt value can be unix time
stamp or any CPU cycles or anything else.

I was confused on choosing an hashing algorithm.`MD5` was looking something
simple, but it will generate a long hash which I don't want. Any other one-way
hashing algorithm like SHA-1 or similar are long. I want something small. This
was confusing. I explain this confusion loudly and told that at present, I am
moving with another approach in which I am dependent on `urandom` of Linux
kernel. The only problem here is that we have to maintain a unique entropy into
a kernel. There are modules available for doing this.

For checking that given code is unique or not, I told that, "I will fire a DB
query to check that given code is exist in record or not.". Because it is a
Key-value database and all keys are indexed, we can check this in "O(1)".

I told, I can try to improve this later, if I will have a time but this will
work for present requirement.

An interviewer unstructured me to define an pseudocode for above requirements. I
wrote below code for it

```
Hash (Singleton)
=====

* get()
   short_code = <module>
   while is_exists(short_code):
       short_code = <module>
   return short_code

* is_exists(short_code)
    return DB.Shortner.exists(short_code):


Shortner
=======

* create(url)
    short_code = hash.get()
    DB.Shortner.create(short_code, url)
    return short_code

* get(short_code)
    try:
        DB.Shortner.get(short_code)
    except KeyError:
        return None
```

After doing this, I was instructed to define a system diagram of this. I was
instructed to define a load balancer, etc. Here is a [System
Diagram][system_diagram] I draw under 20 minutes.

My interviewer told that there is one fault that my approach is checking
uniqueness of a short code via firing a DB. This can have a problem in achieving
horizontal scaling. As an improvement, I told we can cache codes to url in Key
value based db using RAM for storing data if it is not available, then we can
reach secondary database for checking records.

I took sometime to find another approach to my algorithm, but I was kind of
stuck. My interviewer decided to stop an interview. He told that he will discuss
my performance with management and they will guide me regarding moving forward
or stopping here.

I am confused, I have performed well or I have failed in this interview.
Decision of choosing NoSQL Key-Value pair database like Redis seems perfect from
my perspective. I don't think I am defining a system in a standard way. I don't
know what are standard ways to define an architecture of a system. There must be
some components which are always present in any architecture. I might have
missed them. I have not chosen best algorithm to generate short codes. I am
sure, I will loose points on this. Choosing an algorithm for generating short
codes was core of this problem. If they will only judge me on my this ability
then I think I could be disqualify this round.

Regarding toughness of interview, I don't know why an interviewer decided to go
with this problem. He had asked me to define a Hash Set (allowing to use
HashMap) in first round. Both problems are of similar nature. I don't think I
was interviewed for solving different natures of problems. It is true that my
next weakness is System Design and designing an architecture with more
standardized approach.


## Second half

### Improvement at Minimum Anagram problem

Coach (oky) has found one broken test case for my solution. I was only counting
number of keys(which are characters) remaining in my `HashMap`. Which was wrong
when there are more than one characters in my `Hashmap`. For fixing this, I
wrote a broken test case first. After that, rather than counting remaining keys,
I preferred to count remaining characters in bin.

### Cats and Dogs problem

My code was wrongly ignoring number of remaining dogs. To which if I have `25`
cats and `1` dog and if I try to verify it with 4 legs then my code was
considering it true. This was a wrong behaviour. This bug was founded by 'thblt'
from #emacs (Freenode). As a solution, I improved it to remove a dog when one
cat was on it and remove counted legs as well. My code was already checking
another possibility in which a dog was containing two cats on it.

`thblt` shared [this](https://paste.thb.lt/1564400984.py.html) solution. By
observing this solution, it is achieving this goal in O(1). It is not doing any
recursion, just checking with multiple conditions. After doing 

My solution is solving this in O(2^n). I should try to understand quarks of this
problem, because solving this in O(1) is lot more better than solving it in
O(2^n).


### Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK)

This is describing about various sub disciplines of Software Engineering.  It
also describes fundamentals of Mathematics and Computer Science. It is a long
book. I have tried to skim it and identify what it is describing. It doesn't
describe anything concretely, it looks like an encyclopedia of Software
Engineering. I don't think one should learn Software Engineering by reading any
encyclopedia. One can't read, understand and apply anything reading from
encyclopedia.

I should focus on reading fundamental things mentioned under Mathematics and
Computer science section. Learning them, will help me to know at least
fundamentals.


## Tomorrow

* Improve Cats and Dogs problem by taking example code shared by 'thblt'. Try to
  make it O(1).


[system_diagram]: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1e8sYuVWbV-zVB0AggwICumcZgZt1f4qrZSoh_EWpsWA/edit?usp=sharing
