---
layout: post
title: "Day 9911"
date: "2019-08-08 09:34:23 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Morning

I woke up at 9.00 AM.


## First half

I tried to solve problems I decided to solve Yesterday. I solved below problems
on board.

### [Remove Nth Node from end of List](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-nth-node-from-end-of-list/)

First approach came to my mind was to store each node in stack, when you reach
at an end, pop N elements from it. This method was solving this problem, but it
was taking O(N) storage space. I didn't went for this approach.

Second approach came to my mind is to maintain a Queue of size N + 1. In this
approach each node is endued to a queue. When queue is full, dequeue one node.
When we reach at an end of Linked list, dequeue two nodes from queue and connect
first dequeued node with next attribute of last popped node. This approach was
storing O(last N elements + 1) node in a memory, which was better than my
previous approach.

Runtime for both of my solutions is O(N).

I was able to solve this in 25 minutes.


### [String to integer](https://leetcode.com/problems/string-to-integer-atoi/)

I only focused on converting number from string. All other requirements I
decided to add as an add-on to my working solution.

I was able to develop a function which takes string and converts to an integer
in 20 minutes.


### [Surrounded Regions](https://leetcode.com/problems/surrounded-regions/)

Definition for this problem was looking confusing. I was unclear that when we
consider any cell as a surrounded, do we count four cell or 8 cell as an
adjacent one.

I focused on writing functions for checking that given cell is on boarder or
not. Then I developed function for checking that given cell should be converted
or not. And lastly I wrote function to convert given cell.

I was unable to check workings of this functions because of less time. It took
25 minutes, but I felt I can do better if there were another 10-15 minutes
assigned for this solution.


### [Design Circular Queue](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-circular-queue/)

I was able to write a code for Enqueue first and then Dequeue may be half
working. I don't think I was able to catch all corner cases for my
implementation.

I was not able to develop `is_empty()`, `is_full()`, `rear()`, `front()`
functions.

I took entire 25 minutes for solving this problem. I felt I could have done
better if another 10-15 minutes were assigned.


### [Range Sum Query Mutable](https://leetcode.com/problems/range-sum-query-mutable/)

This was looking fancy from tags Yesterday, but it is nothing but a wrapper over
an `List`. I don't know what Binary Indexed Tree or Segment Tree data
structures. This problem was assigned to those data structures.

I quickly developed expected functions on my Array based implementation in some
10 minutes.


### [Validate Binary Search Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/validate-binary-search-tree/)

I developed a recursive solution which starts from root and then it checks
validity of right and left node first, if they are correct then it checks
validity of itself and return a result.

I was able to develop a solution for this in some what 25 minutes on board.


### System design question: Crawler which avoids running infinitely

I developed a two UML diagrams. One defining an interface of Crawler and another
defining URL manager.

Crawler is responsible for start crawling from given URL and then visit each
page, parse page, collect data and store it and collect links to be visit in
future.

URL manager is responsible for remembering visited link, enqueuing links which
are not visited to queue, dequeue next link to be visited.

I used Queue data structure at URL manager for storing URLs which should be
visited in future. I used Set (Hash Set) data structure for storing visited
URLs.

I was able to write interfaces and implementation of both of this in 25 minutes,
but I am not happy with my object oriented structures. I could have named my
methods more isolated and more readable by their names.


## Second half

I solved exercises of Introduction to Algorithms Chapter 10 Stacks and Queues
exercises. I have not verified them with anyone. Tomorrow I will try to self
verify them first and I will prove them and them I will request anyone from
`##algorithms` to verify my solutions.


## Tomorrow

* I will solve below Data structure and Algorithm problems. These problems were
part of Data structure and Algorithm round at Commerce IQ.

### Leetccde

1. [Recover Binary Search Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/recover-binary-search-tree/)
2. [Maximal Square](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximal-square/)

### HackerEarth
