---
layout: post
title: "Day progress 9891"
date: "2019-07-19 21:36:10 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - preparation
  - object_oriented_programming
---

## Morning

I woke up around 10.30 AM. Yes, I decided to sleep well and allow my mind to
heal. Skipped breakfast because I was too late, waited 30 minutes at barbershop
to trim my beard, but didn't did it because it was taking too much time.


## First Half

I decided to assign 25 minutes to each problem. I picked one Tree and Graph
problem and try to solve it for 25 minutes. If it is not solved during those 30
minutes then I move to next problem.

Below were the topics I chooses 

1. Tree and Graphs
2. System Design
3. Information about Grab


### Tree and Graphs

I learnt how to traverse in-order, pre-order and post-order in binary tree.
Below is a sequence of nodes for each of them.


#### In-order

Visit Root node first, then Left node and then Right node.


#### Pre-order

Visit Left node, Root node and then Right node.


#### Post-order

Visit Left node, Right node and then Root node.


#### Height Balanced tree

I then tried to solve a problem to identify that given tree is height balanced
or not.

A tree is a height balanced if height of both child is differ by 1 or less than
it. This property should be repeated at each node of a tree.

I was not able to solve this problem in 25 minutes. I will try to solve this
tomorrow.


### Object Oriented Design and System Design

I tried to design classes for below systems.

#### Call center system

A system for call center in which employees are in three hierarchies. One is
representative, another is manager and last and highest is directory. Condition
is, if any representative is free, you should assign incoming call to him/her.
If all representatives are busy, you should assign call to manager. If all
managers are busy then you should assign call to director.

I designed a common base class for storing employee details. The role
representative, Manager and directory inherit employee class and extend their
role attribute. This will allow to maintain their common details and find any
available resource according to their category.

I will maintain a priority queue for storing available employees. When system
will start, I will add all representatives, managers and directors to a queue.
When new call comes, I will pop an employee with lowest priority role from a
queue. When a call is finished, I will push respected employee object to a queue
again. Doing this, will always pop a representative if any is available in
queue. If all representatives are busy with call, then I this queue will pop a
manager because next low priority is manager. And in last, it will go to
director.

#### Jukebox

A system which allows their user to play songs for free.

It looks simple because all one has to define an individual class for entities
like Album, Artist, Song, Playlist, etc.


## Second half


### Grab


Grab is impressive. It was founded during the year 2012 by two people. One of
them is Anthony Tan and Tan Hooi Ling. Grab started with an idea to provide
rented taxi via mobile app. Grab was a first app at South Asia division. Grab
now provides below facilities:

1. Pickup and drop service of goods via bike
2. Food delivery
3. Cab
4. Rented tax
5. Digital payments

After analysing more about the Grab, I found below are their good points

* Grab initiated to provide a smart phone and education program to use a smart
phone. Very few company cares about a financial crises of small scale people.

* Grab did a type with Hyndai for doing an innovation in electronic cars.
Electric cars are future, fuel is a problem and very soon there will be crises.

* Grab opened their research and development branch in Bangalore India and
United states to attract talent. I believe a company who want to invest in
hiring a good software engineers and maintain a diverse engineer can win in any
situations.

* Grab invested million rupees in research. Today's research is Tomorrow's gain.
Any investment in research will payback with maximum rewards. The only
disadvantage of investing in research is there are no sort term gains. I am
glade that founders are initiating calculated risk of doing an investment in
research. History tells that a company investing in research were always ahead
of everyone in market.

I like how founders are taking their decisions one step ahead of others.


## Tomorrow

* I have on site interview at Grab. I hope I will be able to perform good.
* Read Design patterns
* Complete a task given by Fulfill.io HR.
