---
layout: post
title: "Day 9808"
date: "2019-04-26 12:28:13 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Yogaclass and little running

I was awake till late Yesterday night. I woke up late around 9 AM, for that
reason I missed my Yogaclass and an opportunity to run a little

## First half

As per my experiences of previous day, I thought to write a utility for
automating the task of testing command line programs. I have two code
repositories which are similar in nature. One of them is solutions for
[GeeksForGeeks][geeksforgeeks] website and another one is solutions for problems
in the book [Programming challenges][programming_language_challenges]. Rather
than directly beginning with writing the framework, I thought to ask at
[#emacs][emacs_freenode] and [#bash][bash_freenode] IRC channels. From the
discussion with the people, I found that there is already a popular utility for
the purpose I was thinking to solve via program.

[Expect][expect] is the utility for testing command line programs. This
framework was suggested by `ski` user from [#emacs][emacs_freenode]. From my
this experience I learnt that one should first search at Search engines,
Stackoverflow, Ask friends, co-workers for your problem. If your problem is not
already solved, then you should think to invest your energy in writing anything
from scratch. Rest of the time of first half I spent in reading/exploring
[tutorials of expect][expect_tutorial]. I dropped the idea of writing yet
another utility for automatically testing command line programs. I created tasks
issues for migrating end to end tests from Python based approaches to
[expect][expect] scripts. You can find my issues for [GeeksForGeeks solutions
here][issue_geeksforgeeks] and [Programming challenges solutions
here][issue_programming_challenges].


## Second half

While learning [expect][expect], I realized that it is limited by its design to
run a single test case file at a time. In my case, each solution of the program
will have its individual end to end test case file. I believe such kind of
problems are better solved by test runner. A job of a test runner is to find
test cases and run the one by one. I searched on [Duckduckgo][duckduckgo] to
find any test runner kind of utility, but I didn't found anything satisfactory.
Asked `ski` to suggest if there are any, but he replied negatively. Finally, I
decided to write an test runner for expect test cases. I did few mistakes with
my planning which I will discuss while introducing [Garud][garud].


### Garud

[Garud][garud] is a test runner for [expect][expect] test cases. [Garud][garud]
finds [expect][expect] test cases and execute them one by one. It is written in
[Bash][bash] script.


#### Planning

I did a mistake in planning [Garud][garud]. Initially I thought it should be a
[Github gitst][github_gist] because it is small and doesn't need maintenance and
only single file, but then I had a counter argument by making it versioned. At
present this utility is written in [Bash][bash], but for solving other purposes
I might choose to re-write this tool into a [Python][python] or any other
suitable programming language. A utility can add/drop functionalities, for that
reason it should be versioned.

From above ideas, I decided to create entire repository instead of gist. This
was a mistake from me. The tool was single shell script file, that's it.
Maintaining yet another project repository was painful. For automating the
release process, there were a few tools. I landed on their description via a
search engine. These tools were based on [Node][node]. It was looking like a
clear overhead to understand them and then write an appropriate configuration
file for my project. This was the moment I realized I should change my idea.
[Github gitst] was small and just one thing. You don't have to take these burden
of new things.


#### Implementation

I use [gist][gist_cli] command line based utility to release latest gist. This
utility is lot easier to configure and use. The command to release via `gist`
was looking like a bit complicated. What if I change my workstation and I want
to release a new fix for my existing gist? I think the idea of repository was
making sense again. I stored configuration and notes for releasing and
maintaining [Garud][garud] gist at [Garud repository][garud_repository]. And I
think it will work and save my time in future.


### End to end tests

I wrote end to end tests for [GeeksForGeeks][geeksforgeeks_repo] solutions,
please find my closed PR [here][geeksforgeeks_pr_end_to_end_tests]. I converted
existing Python based end to end tests of [Programming
challenges][programming_challenges_repo] to [expect][expect] based end to end
tests. Please find my PR [here][programming_challenges_repo].


The day was tiring. I think I can do lot better and quicker than this. Writing
an individual blog post on [expect][expect] can be a good idea.
