---
layout: post
title: "Day 9892"
date: "2019-07-20 13:10:08 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - python
  - grab
---

## Morning

I woke up around 7.00 AM. After waking up, I solved identifying that given tree
is height balanced or not. After doing that, I read a few pages of handling
linked list.

Did breakfast, took bath and rush to office of Grab.


## First half

I reached early at the office of Grab. During the time I was waiting, I revised
Dijeckstra's shortest path finding algorithm.


### Data structure round

I was asked to solve two problem. Below are two problems respectively.


#### Given sequence of positive numbers, find pairs who's sum is equal to expected value.


First was to find a pair from given positive integers which are making sum equal
to an expected value. I solved this question with an linear approach first. In
which I compared each element with elements on a left side of it in a sequence
and checked if their sum is equal to expected value, if it is then I add it to a
list. After iterating like this over all elements, I return collected pairs.
This was a brute-force solution. Time complexity of this approach is O(N^2) and
space complexity is O(1).

I then had a little discussion with my interviewer and I told him that I cam
improve this. He agreed to and then I converted my existing solution to a hash
set based approach. In this approach, I iterate on given sequence of positive
integers and I calculate difference of given element with expected value. Below
is a simple approach to get an idea of this value.

If `x + y = z` then, `y = z - x`

Based on this approach, I look into my hash set to see difference which is `y`
present in my list or not. If it is present, then I will consider `number` and
`difference` as a pair and collect it to a list.

This solution can collect pairs in O(N) time complexity, but we are storing
almost each element in to a hash set, so space complexity of each element will
be O(N).

I demonstrated my analysis to my interviewer and then he decided to move on to
next question.

Then he asked me to design a data structure of Hash map or hash set. Answer to
this, I told I will take a hash value of given key for example compute a `MD5`
hash of given value. Then he asked me why I am choosing a hashing `MD5` and not
anything else. I told him that choosing `MD5` as a hashing algorithm can produce
strong one way hash value which is different for small value as well as it will
not collied when input is large.

He didn't gave any reply on this and instructed me to move forward. Then I told
that I will remove a common characters of hash, and pick last five or a
different one and maintain an array in which I will store them. I was confused
on this part. I was not sure how should I store elements in an array and find
them and assert that given element is present or not in O(1). Then my
interviewer decided to move on next question.


#### Identify Given two strings are an Anagram of each other or not.

In this problem, I was allowed to replace K number of elements from one string
to another string. For example two strings "CAT" and "TAB" can become anagram of
each other if "C" of first string is replaced with "T" or visa versa. As a
counter question, I asked what are possible values of K can be. Can it be less
than zero? He replied that value of K will be always greater than zero.

Well, first and foremost thing to do here is to return False if length of two
strings are not equal, because we can only replace characters and we are not
allowed to remove or add in any of them. I conveyed my this thought to an
interviewer and he agreed on it.

Identifying common characters between two string which are in random order was
clearly looking appropriate for Hash table approach. In that approach, we can
iterate on first string, an maintain a count of each character in a hash set.
While iterating on second string, we can remove the count of character that are
present on second string.

Here, I was stuck. I was confused because this approach was adding one
additional iteration on my hash map and then decide based on K possible updates.

I took some time, but I was not able to clearly communicate a correct answer to
my interviewer. After certain minutes, he gave me a hint that it is allowed to
iterate over on hash map, but I still couldn't catch his hint and then he
decided to end my first round.

During open discussion time, I asked him to gave suggestion on me and how can I
progress my skills. He said doing an competitive programming is good, but it is
important to understand things fundamentally. I should refer CLRS, or Algorithm
Design manual for reference. It can take nearly 2 months to understand things
fundamentally. These was his words and I am not agree with him. Reading books
gives too much theoretical concepts, which is good but exercises are one way to
try gained theoretical knowledge. Problem with Algorithm Design book is,
exercises are something deep and in my experience I have not encountered any of
them during an interview. How can he conclude that I am not read them?

I am actually reading those books (not CLRS), not page by page but to understand
a concept. For example for understanding Dynamic programming I understood and
referred Algorithm Design book and understood a concept and then practiced it at
Leetcode or GeeksforGeeks problems. I love solving competitive problems and it
is an only thing which is motivating me to understand a concept and practice it.


### System design round

I fucked up in this round. My interviewer instructed me to draw a system on
which I am working presently. I started with defining components step by step.
It took around 20 minutes of discussion in between she asked that the process of
identifying a buffer amount for each quotes to avoid a financial fluctuation is
manual? I replied it is not a manual process, because that value is entered by a
higher management into our system and then every time it get picked.

She actually meant that a buffer value is fixed or it is automatically
calculated according to situation and currency rate on arrival of request.

After little more discussion on it, she considered it as a manual. This was
something interesting. I or none of anyone from my management decided to make
this process automatic. There are enough room to make this process automated.
Doing this will allow to quote our customer low when market is low being
cheapest in market. The whole idea of calculating an quote automatically is
looking like a manual to me now.

After this, she gave me another design problem.


#### Google document

She instructed me to design a system for an interactive document collaboration
system.  I fucked up in this problem!

First I asked is our system can more than one people edit same document? She
said yes. Okay so here it was clear to maintain this condition.

Then I asked, are we authenticating a user? She replied that at moment, we don't
have to authenticate a user. Assume a user having a link can access and read or
update a document. From this, I was clear that I should not get involved in
authenticating my user at the moment.

Then I asked, what kind of text our user will write. Will it be HTML, or
something else. She said assume we are only supporting a plain text to our
client. From this, I can see that I don't have to worry about maintaining
concurrent DOM at fronted to visually style text. This was also good thing
because I can just grab and paste whatever text is.

I designed a front end client first. Because it will be a constant to and fro of
text, I decided to make an constant web socket connection from client side which
I use as a pipeline to communicate whatever update has happened at other clients
and transfer whatever updates has happened at current client.

At back-end, I defined a Publisher-Subscriber queue in which each publisher can
also act as a subscriber. I defined that each update to a document at client
side will publish a present state of a document at queue. Consumer will update
their document according to new state.

Then she raised a point that what happen when there will be a conflict?

In response to this question, I told that we can reduce collision by indicating
who is typing where. This was too poor answer from side. She said yes it is
true, but they are user. They will do anything to which I am also agree.

After thinking for a while, she said that I have a limited number of minutes
left. I have to wind this up in 5 minutes.

I then started improving things, but I am sure I have missed some large points.
I told that rather than transferring large document, I can just share a patch
with other consumers. This will reduced a data transfer at huge level. Now this
will have a point where two updates to same line has happened at the same time.
In this case, I can still take common lines between current sate and update
happen at other parts. I told, we can put whatever is written at other client
first and then put whatever user is writing at present. After doing that,
suddenly we share a patch of present buffer with other clients. I don't think
this is a good way to avoid a collision.

She concluded on this problem and asked me to share any question I have
regarding the Grab.

I told in which team she is working in. And what are their daily
responsibilities. Then I asked clearly on which things she think I have a room
to improve. She answered that it was a good step that I started from a front-end
based approach rather than going for a backed approach first and then going to a
front-end one. She added that she is not happy with my way to define/draw
component of systems. I have a huge room to improve in this area.

I am totally agree with her on this. I have to practice system design questions
more and more. I am poor in defining a system. It is important to define a
system which can be understood by others without communicating anything with
them. I should reach at a level where components defined by me is understood by
anyone without aurally communicating any word. That level will help me to plot a
system which is clear and easily understandable by others.

Then I asked her that, "Do you think this system can handle thousands of
concurrent connections?". On answer to this without taking a delay of second she
replied, "No. There are lot of things to improve. This problem is a million
dollar problem. I should find ways my doing a search over any search engine and
take inspirations." She also added that, "This is a large problem. 30 minutes is
not enough for covering each small details of it."

This reply from here kind of stuck me. I am feeling less confident that I have
performed enough in this round.

Recruitment manager instructed me to leave to a home and told that she will get
a feedback from interviewers and will let me know if they are positive for a
round with higher management.
