---
layout: post
title: "Day 9809"
date: "2019-04-27 19:17:23 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Yogaclass and running

My classes are not on weekends. I slept very late last night. I woke up late, thus unable to do exercise, running, pranayam and yoga.


## First half

I spent much more time to find appropriate place for food. The time I invested
could have been utilized in learning something better. I tried solving planned
[Linkedlist problem][geeksforgeeks_linked_list_problem], everything was going
smooth until I started facing wage bugs at end to end tests. The test script was
passing even if the program was failing. It was ending with exit status `0` even
if the expected output was wrong. I didn't had any clue, and I decided to left
for lunch. I was able to write unit test for my Linkedlist implementation.

## Second half

I decided to ask at IRC channel of [TCL][tcl] because the [expect][expect]
utility is written in it. I shared my script and source code of the program I
was trying to test. I got a response that the experts of expect aren't
available, I should try to ask during weekdays. The person pointed out to read
manual of expect utility.

Well, this was an obvious way to solve the problem I was facing. The man page is
huge. It doesn't give much simpler examples. I was not testing something
complex. From the manuals, I thought knowledge of [TCL][tcl] is expected to
write appropriate expect scripts.

The `expect` command of expect script is kind of behaving in different way.
According to my last experience, the expect script was showing a traceback if
`spawn` program was failing. When I was trying to find cause of the problem the
expect utility was completely hiding the traceback. I think there is some more
configuration required to understand the carks of the expect script. Rest of my
time was invested in debugging this problem. I decided to quite because I was
kind of feeling lost.

Below are the things I learnt about `expect` script.

* `#!/user/bin/expect -d`: If we put this *SHBANG!* at the beginning of the
script, the expect utility gives more traces of the commands it performed. It is
useful if you want to find the cause of the broken test.

* `send_user`: You can use this [expect][expect] command to sent text to the
STDOUT rather than to feed to the `spawn` program. It is like a `print` function
of `Python`. Example

```tcl
send -- "hello"
expect {
  "world" {send_user "Received output"}
}
```

Above will print `Received output` to the console when it will receive "world"
string from the `spawned` program.

* `exit`: This command will terminate the running expect program. You can
specify `status` as an argument. I used this command to exit from the on-going
script and put appropriate exit status.

Example

```tcl
send -- "hello"
expect {
  "world"
  timeout {exit 1}
  }
```

The above code will exit the script with status `1` if the expected output do
not arrived in mentioned timeframe. This command is helpful, because the expect
utility exits with `0` status code even if the comparison has failed or the
program has failed to sent expected output in a given time frame.

* `timeout`: This variable is a reserved variable. The default value of it is
`10` seconds. If we set it to `-1` then the expect utility will wait forever for
the expected output. I have set `timeout` variable to `-1` at my previous
scripts. I will have to remove them to set them to their default value.

* `expect`: Even after spending some time, I was not able to learn quarks of
`expect`. I think I am a weak learner. Here I am sharing what I have learnt, I
will try to put some time to learn this command again.

We can specify actions to be performed when particular event will occur. Take
the example of below code

```tcl
send -- "hello"

expect {
  "world" { send_user "Resulted in world"}
  timeout {exit 1}
  eof {exit 1}
  "" { send_user "Default"; exit 1}
}
```

All of three values at `expect` are expressions. The output of the program will
be first compared with all of these expressions. The first is "world", if the
output is "world" then expect utility will execute the code block given under
it.

If the output is not "world", then it will see if it is a timeout or not. If it
is a timeout then it will execute the block under timeout.

The expect utility will perform the same comparison will all of its expressions.

If the output do not match to any of the expression then it will execute the
code of default block. In the given example, `""` empty string is representing a
default block. `""` empty string is representing the default block in `expect`
command.

This was it for the day, I am done with the code of the linkedlist exercise,
but because of this strange end to end test failure I am unable to merge it. It
took unexpected time to debug this problem. I am not able to fix the problem for
the failure.

## Tomorrow

* I will spent some more time in learning expect and expect command. Find the
problem and fix the end to end test.
* Tomorrow I will meet Punit at 3.30 PM to discuss on Blog writing and RC.
* I will submit my talk proposal and workshop proposal at Pycon India.
* Complete the job application at RedHat.
* Solve one problem from queues.
