---
layout: post
title: "Day 9947"
date: "2019-09-12 23:28:01 +0530"
tags:
  - GoScale
  - air_asia_interview
  - amazon_preparation
---

## Morning

I woke up around 9:00 AM. I thought to solve a few questions from Cracking the
coding interview, but then I reached to co-working space.


## First half

I decided to appear for Air Asia coding test. I was slept around 1:00 AM
Yesterday. I was feeling drowsy. I don't know why, but I decided to took small 1
hour nap so that I can appear in my test with a fresh mind. Around 11:40 AM I
woke up and arranged myself in a quite room for the test with a cup of
Americano.


### Air Asia test

It was 1 hour long test having two questions in it.


### First question

I don't remember the exact words, but it was similar to this. Given sequence of
integers of prices and target value, return value in below form. Try to purchase
items. If you raise value of target, then stop and return (sum of purchased
parts - target). If you purchase all parts and still you have not reached value
of target then return the (target - sum of all parts).

First question I solved in some 5 minutes. After that I moved for solving second
questions.

The second question was to find a sub sequence having maximum sum from given
array. I spent rest of my 55 minutes solving this question. Yes, I believed that
solving this question is more appropriate with backtracking, I felt that it is
to find sub sets. And finding a sub set of any element can be done better by
using Backtracking approach. I forgot how can one use backtracking in this
approach. So I started finding my notes for it. I didn't found any, I started
copying existing code and then tried to run it. Still at the end I was able to
achieve 3 out of 15 test cases.

After observing things, I realized that I did two mistakes here. First is
finding subsequence is different than finding sub sets. Finding subsequence of
any string or anything is more appropriately achieved using two loops approach.
I don't need backtracking for finding subsequence of strings. I mean I can use
various other ways, but this is required at present.


## Second half

As a lesson, I spent my day thinking about construction of subsets. What is a
minimum logic required to construct a subsets? How someone manually should
construct subsets?

There are 2^n - 1 possible subsets of given elements of length "n". Each element
will have two states. And this we have to do for each elements. Thinking it
recursively, we have to find subsets of sub elements and then multiply that
result with current element. Thing to observer here is that this don't have
relation of addition, but it has a relation of multiplication with each other.

### GoScale interview

GoScale did blooper again. HR called me and fixed an appointment at 7:00 AM. No
one called me during mentioned time. I tried calling here, but her phone was
switched off after one right.

I posted my review over Glassdoor and complained about her by calling to GoScale
office. Fortunately my called was received by one of the founders of GoScale. I
said my experience with GoScale. I think he was aware with this incident or he
was aware that his interviewing team is over burden by identifying candidates.
He told me that if I am interested then he can arrange someone to took my
interview. I told him that I am interested.

Then I received one email having a link of Hackerrank peer code. When I joined,
no-one was there. I tried messaging, no one replied. I dropped a mail that when
we should start. No one replied so I decided to solve given problems.

First problem was of dynamic programming. The question was given a string, I
have to find a substring which is minimum in length having all unique characters
of large string. I started with manual brute force approach, in which I was able
to solve 3 test cases, but then it failed by time limit error. I spent some
time, but didn't found any pattern in which I can apply memoization technique.

Second question was Graph traversal with weights. I have to find a path with
sorest cost from source to destination. I skipped because I haven't revised
Dijekstra's shortest path finding algorithm.

Third question was given a pre-order traversal of graphs, you have to check that
given sequence is of valid BST or not. This was looking simple, but I was not
able to solve it.

There wasn't any time limits, but I didn't found I am able to solve this
questions. So I decided to quite it. This questions were looking like a
difficult questions to me.

### Amazon interview

Competition is tough. Rogers and his team will reach India next week. From next
week to 2 consecutive weeks they will interview four candidates in half day.
They have prepared a day in two slots. A clear calculation tells that 8
candidates in day. They will do this for two weeks. Doing this will make 8 * 5 *
2 = 80 candidates.

They are going to interview 80 candidates. Now he was mentioning that they are
hiring for a team. In a team there will be 10 people. I don't think large
organizations require more than 10 people in a team. So now, 10:80 is roughly
their selection ratio. I have to stand on that 12% of people. If I will tough
that bar, only than and then I will be selected for doing service at Amazon.

When I observed Leetcode discussion of people sharing their Amazon interview
experience, they mentioned that there are four questions and one is bar riser
amongst them. This question is generally asked by manager or any senior
developer. Those questions were tougher for me. That clearly indicated that I
can't be lazy from now. There will be tons of difficult questions in-front of
me.

Even I am thinking to skip Pycon Taiwan for not loosing a concentration of
preparation. From Tomorrow, I will skip all noises. I will only focus on
preparing for Amazon interview.

## Tomorrow

* Give Booking.com Hackerrank test in morning
* Give Rakuten test in evening
* Aural discussion with DataWire.io HR
* Go throw dynamic programming chapter from the book Introduction to Algorithms
book.
* Solve all three question of GoScale.
