---
layout: post
title: "Day 98010"
date: "2019-04-29 21:05:43 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Yoga class and a little running

I was awake till late on Sunday night. I missed the classes Today too.


## First half

First half spent on writing a daily progress for Sunday. I was not in a mood to
write anything on Sunday evening, thus I skipped writing and decided to write
on next day.


## Second Half

Today I spent some more time learning [Aruba][aruba] and [Cucumber][cucumber].
The [Cucumber][cucumber] is a framework for Behaviour Driven Development (BDD).
In BDD, one define a behaviour of the program first before writing any line of
code. Behaviour is defined in the form of various features. [Cucumber][cucumber]
is based on [Gherkin][gherkin] syntax. According to my previous decision, I
converted existing [Expect][expect] based end to end test cases into
[Aruba][aruba] based test cases. Please find my PR
[here][pr_of_convert_to_aruma].


### Few other notes on Cucumber and Aruba

I spent some more time to make the input of the test cases more readable. At
present I am writing comments whenever some value is feed to the `STDIN` of the
program. I am not sure this is a write approach, but it works pretty well from
whatever I was using before. Learning the concept of Behaviour Driven
Development seems extremely important. I was having an overview of it before,
but after observing the impact of it, I think it is the great methodology to
make your code more readable and testable. I have decided to learn Behaviour
Driven Development and understand Gherkin syntax more deeply. This knowledge
will help me to write better testable code.

I know I have spent some more time that what I should on finding appropriate
test module. End to end tests will save lot of my time when I try to improve the
performance of the program or decide to change the algorithm of it.


### Son Chidiya

I don't know why, but I spent some 1 hour (in chunks of 20 minutes) watching
this movie at Youtube. I think I couldn't control on myself because I was not
having enough sleep, added a curfew on Coffee and not enough exercise. I am not
against entertainment, but those 60 minutes could have utilized to improve my
self.


## Tomorrow

* Apply to Software Engineer Python Remote-India position at RedHat
* Write a solution for [Reverse First K elements of
Queue][reverse_first_k_elements_of_queue].
* Write a solution for [Queue operations][queue_operations].
* I will submit a talk proposal and workshop proposal at Pycon India.
* Read Behaviour Driven development:
  - Try to watch a few videos from here https://cucumber.io/school

[pr_of_convert_to_aruma]: https://github.com/ultimatecoder/geeksforgeeks/pull/4
[reverse_first_k_elements_of_queue]:
https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/reverse-first-k-elements-of-queue/1
[queue_operations]: https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/queue-operations/1
