---
layout: post
title: "Day 9887"
date: "2019-07-15 22:00:13 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - laptop
  - passport
  - taiwan
  - pycon
---

## Morning

I woke up at 6 AM. Sleep of last night was intense. I don't know when I went
into deep sleep cycle and when I woke up in morning. Twitter took much of my
time Today morning. I watched highlights of ICC Cricket worldcup 2019 finals on
Hotstar.


### Laptop cleaning and keyboard malfunctioning

Since I was early, I decided to clean my dirty laptop. I sprayed Colin few
times on top cleaned it with cloth, then I sprayed over keyboard and tried
cleaning it. It was working fine until 1 hour. After that suddenly keyboard
started malfunctioning. I was clue less. I thought it can be a software related
error. I observed history of my shell for root and administrator account, but I
didn't found anything mistrials there. Then I plugged an external USB keyboard.
And key strokes from an external keyboard was working fine. People from #gentoo
suggested me to boot from another operating system. I downloaded  Ubuntu
Desktop edition, written it on a USB drive and shutdown my computer for a
reboot. And dam, a power button was not working. I was unable to start my
computer back. Now, this was clearly a hardware error. I decided to rush to a
service center.


### Lenovo Service center

A Lenovo Exclusive Service center is located at Aurobindo marg, near JP nagar.
It was around 10 KM from my home. Via auto, travelling to a service center took
fucking 1 hour and 30 minutes. This was mainly because office traffic of Monday
morning.

Fellow at service center told that I have lenovo exclusive warrenty. Which
means I will be able to schedule repair service of my laptop from home. I
wasn't aware of that.


#### My warranty expire

My warranty is expiring on this 27th of July. It was one year warrenty plus 1
year of accidental damage protection. He told I can renew my warrenty for next
2 years in 6K and 1 year warranty plus accidental damage protection in 9.5K. I
am not sure, but I have to make a quick decision.


#### Secret way to start my laptop

When I told that the power button is not working, a fellow from service center
took one pin (similar to spate pine) and pushed it inside hold on right hand
side. There is one small hall after USB at right hand side. There is unside
down kind of error. May be it is indicating reset or something similar. I can
use this if I am stuck anywhere.


### Nearest metrostation from service center

Nearest metro station is Rastriya vidhyala Road on green line. It is around 800
meeters away from the station. I have to go to Majestic and then switch to
purple line from station 1 going towards Biyapanhalli.


### Chetan morning video call

Chetan is at Toronto, Canada for a business trip from his present company. He
told me to have an urgent video call from Canada. Nothing was urgent and he
wasted my 1 and half hour productive hours of my morning. I could have read
something interesting during that time.


## First Half


### Singleton

While going to a service center, I read one design pattern called Singleton.
This pattern is basic pattern which can be used whenever you have to maintain a
single instance of class across your codebase.

Below is a Python example of Singleton method

```python

class SingletonExample:
    _instance = None

    def __new__(cls, *args, **kwargs):
        if cls._instance is None:
            cls._instance = super(
            SingletonExample, cls
            ).__new__(cls, *args, **kwargs)
        return self._instance
```

Here, `__new__` is a magic method which will be called before creating an
instance of the class. At `__init__`` method, the `self` is actually an
instance of the class, because we have to maintain a single isntance of a class
object, then we can only achieve our goal using this method.

I have used Singleton pattern in sharing Data base connection object between
multiple threads. Practical example is sharing a configurations accross entire
application.


### Factory method

This method I read during Metro commute to Halasuru Metro station. This pattern
will isolate the object creation part. We have to define one method which will
work as a factory method between entire codebase. Responsibility of this method
is to create a new instance of class and return it. This method takes expected
type of the object.

Advantage of using Factory method is, when you will change the name of the
class to something else, you only have to change at definition of a factory
method rather than Replacing class name in entire codebase. This factory method
provides one layer of abstraction.

According to the guide I was reading, it was mentioned that factory method can
take string as an argument and return expected new object.

Below is a simple example of Factory method in Python:

```python
class Shape:

    def __init__(self):
        self.my_type = None


class Circle(Shape):

    def __init__(self):
        self.my_type = 'Circle'


class Triangle(Shape):

    def __init__(self):
        self.my_type = 'Triangle'


def factory(type_of_object):
    if type_of_object == 'circle':
        return Circle()
    elif type_of_object == 'triangle':
        return Triangle()


if __name__ == "__main__":
    c1 = factory("circle")
    assert c1.my_type == 'Circle'

    t1 = factory("triangle")
    assert t1.my_type == 'Triangle'
```

After reading about Factory method, I have below confusions.

* How should arguments to instance method of dedicated method are passed when
  it is called with Factory method?

* Is find and replace at file level a better option than Factory method?
  Compare both

* At [OODesign][oodesign], it mentioned that Java and C# has some mechanism to
  identify whenever new class is created and using that feature, one even don't
  have to update code of factory method after that.


I have decided to re-read the factory method again. I will try to get an idea
if I am missing any important point.


## Second half


According to new rule, I can re-new my password from any Registerd Passport
Office of India and I can have different parmanent address. I have to show any
address proof of current address. After reading this, I registered for re-newal
of my expired passport. I got 24th, morning day to remain present at the Lalbag
Passport office.

There are bunch of documents that I have to collect while going to passport
office. I have to prepare them. Original and self attested copy of Rental
agreement is required.

Bank's passbook copy with a new address is also one type of address proof. I
have to update address of HDFC bank so that I can represent my address proof.

## Tomorrow

* Visit bank for updating address and take copy of new address with passbook.
* Decide going to PyData Delhi, if so book tickets as early as possible
* Decide going to home for Rakhi. If so decide dates and book tickets as early
  as possible.
* Check what type of Passport size photos are required. Go to studio and make
  photos clicked accordingly.

[oodesign]: https://www.oodesign.com/
