---
layout: post
title: "Day 9904"
date: "2019-08-02 01:02:08 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - hash_table
  - direct_address_table
  - LaTeX
  - commarcial_iq
  - o4s
  - community_refridgerator
---

## Morning

I woke up at 8 AM. I was scrolled Twitter for more than half an hour. Rushed to
co-working space.


## First half

### Community Fridge

Community fridge is a concept in which anyone open to putt food inside fridge.
One can putt their left over food or food that they can't eat into fridge.
People who is hungry can come and take food from it. Anyone is allowed to take
food without any charges. Apart from food, you can putt books, clothes at
counter. I liked this initiative. I am not coming from a wealthy family. I have
slept hungry sometimes in my life. I donated one plat of Gobi paratha to it.


### LaTeX

I spent all my first half remembering tags of LaTeX, configuring appropriate
structure for writing solutions to Introduction to Algorithms problems. This
time is huge. It never happen with Markdown. I like a formatted text of LaTeX
compared to Rich Text format or Markdown, but I can observe that remembering
LaTeX tags takes time.


## Second Half


### Direct Access Table

Directory Access Table is a data structure which provides facility to insert,
delete or search element in `O(1)`. This data structure internally uses Array to
store pointer to objects. Below are components of Direct access tables.


#### Universe of Keys

Keys are index values of our Array.


#### Table

Table stores pointer to objects. Length of this array is equal to universe of
keys. With this property, we can avoid a problem of key collision, but size of
an array is equal to a size of keys which brings high amount of memory for
storing array elements.


#### Possible state of each array elements

If given array element is `null` then we can conclude that element is not
present in an array. If it is not `null` then we can assume that element is
available in array.


#### Methods


##### Insert

Insertion of an element is done by choosing a key from universe and storing that
key as a object attribute. The pointer to element object is stored at key value
which is index at Array. This operation is achieved in O(1).

```
Insert(T, element)

  T[element.key] = element
```

##### Delete

Deletion of an element is achieved by making that array index `null` again. This
operation do not take key, but it takes object reference. This operation also
takes `O(1)`.

```
Delete(T, element)

  T[element.key] = null
  ```

##### Search

Searching an element is achieved by returning element object stored at given
Key.

```
Search(T, key):

  return T[key]
```

All these operations take `O(1)` time.


I have tried to solve most of exercises of Direct Address Table.
[Here](https://github.com/ultimatecoder/introduction-to-algorithm) are my
solutions.


## End

* Invested my time in washing clothes. Washed too many clothes.
* I am not sure I should attend DevConf and EthIndia conf
