---
layout: post
title: "Day 9828"
date: "2019-05-18 00:17:58 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - backtracking
---

## Yoga class and a little running

Skipped!


## First Half

I was trying to solve the 15 Puzzle problem which I tried to solve Yesterday.
The problem wasn't looking that challenging. Once I was done, I tried to run my
code. It ran for almost half an hour. In the beginning I was thinking that
because it is doing an heuristic search, it is taking a time. But after more
than half an hour, I realized that it is doing many things wrong. I am not sure,
but some of my methods like `swap_left` and `swap_right` were modifying the
existing board. I think that was the major cause for looping infinitely between
some swipes.

I was clear that I should not perform search with all the sides. I found my
program was going into infinite loop by swapping from right to left and left to
right. That realized me that I should avoid doing swipe for below conditions.

* When my tile is swapped with right then I should not swap it with left
* When my tile is swapped with up then I should not swap it with down

Both rule are applicable for their reverse state. For example when I have
swapped left then I should not swap right.

This change reduced a bit, but my code was still looking like an infinite loop.
I am sure this was because of modifying the board state.

I struggled a bit to find a appropriate method to reduce the comparisons. First
I thought to replace it with a tile which is minimum. But soon I find it was
doing a wrong swap when it was coming to a second row and a third row. To avoid
that, I thought to choose a minimum element when my blank tile is at first row.
If my blank tile is at second row then it should choose the second minimum value
from all the related tiles. When on third it should choose third highest and so
on. But it was breaking for a below board position.


13  1   2   4
5   6   3   7
9   0   10  12
15  8   11  14

In above positions, the third highest value is "9" which is left tile from the
blank tile. If we will swap with it then it will move the tile "9" from its
expected position and thus it will lead to a wrong branch of answer.


## Second half


I tried to continue my search for better methods. I realized that there was
always one tile connected with the blank tile to which if we swipe then it the
swapped tile will reach to its correct position. From this observation I
constructed below heuristics to choose next tile to swap with.

From the puzzle we know that the expected state of the puzzle is where there is
sorted 1 to 15 tiles and blank tile is at last position. From that reference
consider the cost or an overhead for swapping a tile with the blank tile.

For example below is the puzzle position

13  1   2   4
5   0   3   7
9   6   10  12
15  8   11  14

In this puzzle, below are the cost of swapping the blank tile with up, right,
left and right tiles.

At 1, 1 position, the 6 number tile is expected. So we will do subtraction with
the expected one.

Cost to swap with left : 5 - 6 = -1
Cost to swap with right: 3 - 6 = -3
Cost to swap with up   : 1 - 6 = -5
Cost to swap with down : 6 - 6 = 0

By looking all the cost, we can choose to go with the value which is zero,
because it will put a tile on its expected position. This was looking like a
promising solution until I found below condition

13  1   2   4
5   6   3   7
9   10  11  12
15  8   14  0

What should be the cost for Blank tile? It is already at its desired position.
This was clearly depicting that the way I am thinking is kind of unreliable.

I was happy that this approach went at least one step further than what I was
doing previously. From that point, I thought to choose my move by constructing a
score value for the board. A score value is a value which identifies, how many
tile in a given board are at their position. Considering below position of the
puzzle


13  1   2   4
5   6   3   7
9   10  11  12
15  8   14  0


There are 8 tiles which are at their desired position. Tile 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11,
12 and 0 are at their desired positions. After doing each swipe, I calculate the
score for the board. If the score was reduced then I do not choose to go on that
path. If the score was increasing, then it is desirable to go on that path. I
applied this on a paper and it was kind of working. I applied this for given
scenarios in the input and bingo, it was giving an expected results. I was happy
that I was able to solve this problem. I wasn't sure, I was using a Backtracking
approach.

I shared my solution at ##algorithm and #eamcs. The `oky` from ##algorithm
suggested that I am using a poor heuristics for choosing my tile to swap with.
He pointed out below references for A* search algorithm.

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm 
* https://algorithmsinsight.wordpress.com/graph-theory-2/a-star-in-general/implementing-a-star-to-solve-n-puzzle/

In the above links, first is explaining what the A* search algorithm is. I tried
to skim it quickly to understand it. It is an algorithm to traverse a graph. It
is different than backtracking. I am sad if my approach is not based on
backtracking. The last blog post actually explains an implementation of A*
algorithm for solving 15 Puzzle problem. It explains various heuristics methods
to choose next best tile to swap with. From all the methods described there, my
this method was not mentioned. There was one which is "Manhattan Distance". I am
not aware how this works.

Tomorrow I will check that my solution is based on A* algorithm or not. If it is
then I will try to solve this problem using Backtracking approach. I will learn
how to calculate "Manhattan Distance" and use it for choosing the great move in
my puzzle.

From the search engine, I found the Programming Challenges book has a video
seriese. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0sxuWjANdIs is one lecture by the
author on Backtracking. I can refer this lectures for further study.

After improving this solution with better huristic approach and A* I will solve
Ishaan Loves Chocolates
https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/ishaan-loves-chocolates/0 problem
from GeeksforGeeks. It is based on greedy approach. I can see a clear recursion
solution. It should not take much time. Once I will solve this, I will choose
next topic Dynamic Programming from https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org and try
to solve easy one problem from it.

The day was tiring. I am happy that I was able to solve the problem. There are
and there will be a ways to improve, but you solved it.


### Pramp

Today I was unable to solve below problem

```
Pairs with Specific Difference

Given an array arr of distinct integers and a nonnegative integer k, write a
function findPairsWithGivenDifference that returns an array of all pairs [x,y]
in arr, such that x - y = k. If no such pairs exist, return an empty array.

Note: the order of the pairs in the output array should maintain the order of
the y element in the original array.

Examples:

input:  arr = [0, -1, -2, 2, 1], k = 1
output: [[1, 0], [0, -1], [-1, -2], [2, 1]]

input:  arr = [1, 7, 5, 3, 32, 17, 12], k = 17
output: []
```

I was able to find the O(n^2) solution by iterating over all the elements, but
it was difficult to solve the puzzle in O(n). The interviewer mentioned that
this puzzle is solvable in O(n). What is mentioned that I should use some
dictionary (hash table) to store the comparison values. I was totally confused
with that approach and thus I failed. Tomorrow I will take a look at this
problem. First I will try for solving this in a O(n^2) time which I know will
not take much of my time. Then I will try for O(n) solution.
