---
layout: post
title: "Day 9911"
date: "2019-08-09 10:50:09 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Morning

I had decided to woke up at 5:30 AM. I was awake by an alarm too, but I slept
till 8.00 AM. Did heavy breakfast and now it is 11:00 AM and I am at office.
Today I have decided to solve data structure and algorithm questions asked to me
during my Commerce IQ interview. I will solve question number four of Cracking
the coding interview as a System Design question.

## First half

I tried to solve below 2 Leetcode problems which were asked to me at Commerce IQ
in first round. Both problems I tried to solve at Leetcode in time frame of 25
minutes. I skipped to solve them on whiteboard, because I had done some ground
work on them during my interview.


### [Maximal Square](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximal-square/)

I tried to solve this problem by an approach I explained during my interview.
Below were my steps to solve this problem.

1. Develop a function to find squares from given position.
2. Iterate on each cell of Matrix and call this function on each cell.

This was looking simple at first glance and it was also looking very easy to
develop, but I spent my entire time figuring out exact combination to find
squares having all 1s in it. My run on sample inputs were giving wrong answers.
I was fundamentally thinking wrong. Even my simple brute force approach was
proven wrong here.

I am missing one hint that I have to find perfect square, having all 1s in it.
Few other ways can be to traverse on boundaries of square first and then repeat
this process to all inside squares. This was a dynamic programming problem. Even
at the time of writing this post, I am unable to figure out how this can be
solved using Dynamic programming.


### [Recover Binary Search Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/recover-binary-search-tree/)

I tried various approaches to solve this problem. Given example inputs were
breaking my initial assumption to consider this problem cracked. I spent entire
25 minutes thinking about any possible solution, but I ended with no results.

After completion of time, I realised that fundamental property of Binary Search
Tree is that all left side elements of root are smaller that value of root and
all right side values are higher values. From this, I should find largest
element from left sub-tree, smallest element from right-sub tree and then
compare them with a value of root. If any of them are violating this properties
then these three elements should be swapped to make Binary Search Tree correct
again.

I can also try this rule to verify validity of Binary Search Tree.


### Other HackerEarth tests

I tried hard to find those HackerEarth questions. I am able to see their names
in my HackerEarth account, but their names are very generic. I tried to find any
related questions with a help of search engines, but I didn't found anything
positive.


### Leetcode unplanned problems

These problems were not planned, but I tried to solved them because I was unable
find those HeackerEarth problems. I tried to solve them in 25 minutes.


#### [Longest Palindromic Substring](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-substring/)

This problem was related to Dynamic Programming. I tried to solve this with a
bruit force approach first in which I developed two functions. One for
identifying that given string is palindrome or not and another function which
cuts given string into sub pieces from beginning to end. I was unable to get
`TimeLimitExceed` exception which kind of proves that my solution is correct,
but I have to improve on performance.

Below is a code I wrote

```python
class Solution:
    def _is_pelindromic(self, substring):
        print(substring)
        start = 0
        end = len(substring) - 1
        while start <= end:
            if substring[start] != substring[end]:
                return False
            start += 1
            end -= 1
        return True

    def longestPalindrome(self, s: str) -> str:
        longest_palindromic_string = ""
        for start_index in range(len(s)):
            end_index = len(s) - 1
            while end_index > start_index:
                substring = s[start_index: end_index + 1]
                if self._is_pelindromic(substring) and len(substring) > len(longest_palindromic_string):
                    longest_palindromic_string = substring
                end_index -= 1
        return longest_palindromic_string
```

This code was broken for "a" test case. My code was giving "", but expected
answer was "a".

### [Regular Expression Matching](https://leetcode.com/problems/regular-expression-matching/)

This was backtracking problem. I spent entire 25 minutes to think about
solution, but I was unable to reach at any conclusive solutions.

My failure to solve above two question shows that I am weak in Backtracking and
Dynamic Programming. I am not up to a level in which I am able to solve any
given problem related to this topic. Reading these two chapters from CLRS and
Algorithm Design Manual and solving each exercises of them can help.


### How to identify 10 million unique documents? - System Design

I solved fourth problem of Cracking the Coding interview book. This problem
mentioned that a document is unique if their URLs are different. I brain stormed
on this problem for 25 minutes.

Identifying uniqueness of URL or avoiding duplicates is simply a HashSet
approach, but problem here is a scale of 10 million. In worst case, if all of
them are unique then we have to store each 10 million at one time because this
approach has space complexity of O(N).

I defined an interface which iterates on given URLs one by one and tries to
avoid duplicate one. Doing this was quick, but I was aware that this wasn't
nought. I thought rest of time to figure out various approaches to distribute
collection of hashes.

Below are various approach I thought to solve this

1. Maintain 26 instance of URL instances. Each instance will have collection of
   URLs starting from that latter. Which means all 26 instances will have URLs
   from letter A to Z individually. We have to send each URL to appropriate
   instance collecting URLs from first letter of URL. This way, we don't have to
   manage them in one single instance and our number of URLs will be divided to
   each instances. In worst case all URLs can start from one letter. Then we can
   again manage instances as dictionary and rather than depending on first
   letter, we manage instances on second letter of it.

At the time of writing this post, Trie data structure can be used rather than
dictionaries because URL is one sequence of string. It can be space officiant
too.

I don't think I was good in this. I should read about this and construct my
thoughts on it.


## Second half


### Amazon Demo Test

I gave sample test of Amazon test on [AMCAT](myamcat.com).

First question [Active and Inactive
cells](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/active-inactive-cells-k-days/). You can
find my PR [here](https://github.com/ultimatecoder/geeksforgeeks/pull/26).

Second question [GCD of more than two numbers
(Array)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gcd-two-array-numbers/). You can find my
PR [here](https://github.com/ultimatecoder/geeksforgeeks/pull/25).


### Power nap

I took 20 minutes of power nap at home to relax for Amazon final test.


### Amazon real test

It was little long test than what I expected. There were two questions that
should be solved in 90 minutes followed by 15 minutes to write about my approach
and complexities of my solution.


#### First question

At Amazon warehouse, time to assemble two parts takes equal to size of two
parts. List of parts were given as an input to a function, I have to figure out
an efficient solution which assembles all given parts in less time.

First I tried to solve this problem by a brute force approach. I sorted given
array first, picked first two, merged them and sub subsequently merged it with
next part from sorted list of parts.

This was passing 2 sample inputs and three test cases, but it was failing other
at 7 test cases. Because every time we have to find next two smallest parts, I
realized that this can be solved efficiently using Heap.

I opened Python documentation for built-in heap module and constructed a heap
from given array of parts, popped two smallest parts from heap merged them and
push it back to heap. I repeat this process of merging parts until I have merged
all parts. At end I return them.

After some attempt, I was able to get a code which was passing two sample
inputs. When I submitted, it passed all 10 test cases. This proved that I was
correct on my approach of solving this problem using Heap. I was still left with
43 minutes, this was good because I was having enough time to solve another
problem.


#### Second question

In this question, I were given list of fore ground processes and background
processes and capacity of system memory. On one machine I can run 1 background
process and 1 foreground process. I had to find optimal combination of
foreground and background processes for a machine of given capacity.

First argument was was a list of foreground processes having sub list where
first element is ID of process and second is required memory. Second argument
was similar list but with different ids and different memory. Third argument was
capacity of one machine.

I wasn't requested to find single optimal combination, but a pair of optimal
solutions. If device capacity is 10 then an combination background and
foreground process requiring 9 memory is optimal until any combination is
perfect 10. Any combination above then given capacity should not be considered
optimal.

If there are no optimal combination, then I have to return empty list. If there
are any then I have to return ID of foreground and background process.

I fucked up here. I tried to solve this with brute force approach first by
combining each foreground process with each background process memory. At this
point I realized that this was even perfectly fitting for Maximum Heap data
structure only given condition is that I have to push processes having total
below or equal to capacity should be appended to heap. Once I am done, I have to
pull processes having maximum values. But then I have to store foreground Id,
background Id and memory of each process. This wasn't possible if I try to use
built-in `heapq` module. I forgot code of writing custom Heap, this was because
a pressure of time. I opened my mobile and search my old code for Heap.

Then only 10 minutes were remaining. I wasn't sure I will be able to complete
it. It wasn't looking like I am going in a right direction.

I removed code I wrote for heap and tried to solve it by simply collecting
solutions perfectly fitting to given space. If total memory of foreground and
background were going above then given limit then I was simply ignoring it. If
it was under the limit, then I was storing it to single list.

After multiplying each combination of foreground process with background
process, I returned my result. I managed to pass 7 tests out of 15.

I could have came with better solution if there was enough time available.


#### Post test

Post test there was 15 minute in which I had to answer my approach to solve
given problem and complexities of solutions I wrote. I wasn't allowed to go back
and see my solutions.

I only wrote run time complexity of my solutions and didn't mentioned space
complexity. I couldn't realized my this mistake until I ended my test. This is
my biggest mistake. I should have mentioned both complexities because I know
them.

#### Cultural survey

After that there was 15 minute cultural survey in which there were behavioural
questions. I have to select my reaction to them. I tried to prove myself as much
positive as I can while answering those questions.


## Tomorrow

* Review my exercies of Stacks and Queues and request anyone from `##algorithms`
  to review them.

* Read and solve exercies of Introduction to Algorithms Linked List chapter.

* Algorithm and Data structure problem

1. [Median of Two Sorted Arrays](https://github.com/ultimatecoder/geeksforgeeks/pull/25)
2. [Divide Two integers](https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-two-integers)
3. [Top K frequent
   elements](https://leetcode.com/problems/top-k-frequent-elements/)

4. [Palindrome
   LinkedList](https://leetcode.com/problems/top-k-frequent-elements/)
5. [Count Primes](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-primes/)
6. [LRU Cache](https://leetcode.com/problems/lru-cache/)

* System design problem from Cracking the Coding interveiw book.
