---
layout: post
title: "Day 9902"
date: "2019-07-30 23:46:32 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - url_shortner
  - system_design
  - dynamic_programming
  - hash_table
---

## Morning

I woke up at 8.30 AM. I was slept around 2 AM Yesterday. I don't know how I woke
up such early today. After that I tried to read expected documents for renewal
of my passport once again. After collecting them, I went to do 2 photocopies of
them at nearby photocopier shop. I paid 198 Rs now assume how many photocopies
would have done!

## First half

Yesterday, Coach has given me a sheet in which I have to fill time-complexities
of various operations performed at various data structures. Most of them I
filled Yesterday night and Today I thought to read/implement them. First was
obvious a Hash table.

I decided to read/write each thing for 25 minutes. After 25 minutes, I switch to
another thing. I did this in a round-robin fashion.


### Hash Table

Hash table is a data structure that I am using from almost 4-5 years. Since I
started writing programmings professionally, I am using it. I am aware with a
characteristics of it. But when an interviewer (at Grab) asked me to explain how
hash table works internally, I was unable to explain it correctly.

I was knowing that finding a Key in a hash table is resolved by doing an
operation of O(1). It was shocking to read that finding a value of a given key
can be O(N) in worst case. Well, there was some words mentioning that if key is
not allowed to changed in future, then O(1) can be achieved even for worst case.
I am sure, Python dictionaries (hash-table) must have been doing something
similar.

Hash-table, stores data in an Array internally. Given key is resolved to an
array index by hash function. If one key is given multiple times then hash
function should generate an Index same every time and it should minimize
collision between two keys.

There is an infinite possibility of keys because key is belonging to a Universe
whereas we will have a limited indexes of an array. There will be a collision
for sure.  Collision is a situation in which two different keys are resolved to
a same index value. Hash table resolves this collision with chaining strategy. I
am yet to read about this strategies.

By converting a key to an array index, we can achieve an advantage of O(1) based
array operations like read, write and delete with keys as a medium to access
values. When any key is deleted, that array position is blanked by filling it
with a null value. When any new key is added, it is resolved to an index and
that value is added at resolved index of array. I am sure checking that a key is
present or not can be achieved by asserting it with a null value. I am yet to
read about resolving collision.


### System Design URL shorter service

I asked people at `#emacs` and `#python`. They don't follow any rigid standards
for defining their architectures. Tools like Drawing.io or anything works. I
should not invest my time in learning any of those things. I tried `Dia`, it is
good but after trying Drawing.io I think I have to prefer Draw.io because it is
having more sophisticated user interface.

I am thinking to maintain a common repository in which all system design
problems are solved. There was one article which was not only defining an
architecture, but also proving it via actual implementation and automated load
tests by using Apache Jmeter. I am not sure, I should invest my time in
implementing an architecture or not. I can take more time than expected.


## Second half

### Minimum Cost to climb stairs

I solved [this problem][minimum_cost_to_climb_stairs] of Leetcode in nearly 25
minutes. It is an easy category problem.
[Here][minimum_cost_to_climb_stairs_solution] is a PR of it. This problem was
based on Dynamic programming.

### O4S third round

I was passed in second round which was system design round. I was confused, I
have done best or not. I am sure, they are lowering their hiring bar because I
don't think I have performed enough in system design round. If there was enough
competition then I am sure, I was rejected for my poor performance. I should not
take this lightly.

Hiring manager has scheduled my third round (with CTO) tomorrow at 5 PM.

### Commercial IQ

Raghunandan referred me here for a position of SDE. They have showed an interest
in me. They will conduct on site round. Their hiring manager has shared an
interview process to me. First round is Data structure, second round is OOP
concepts and Problem solving round. Third round is how am I responding to
problems and delivering solutions according to requirements. I am not sure what
kind of questions there will be in this round. I will better try to ask them
clearly about this. Fourth round is how I have worked in team, kind of problems
I have solved in a team.

A manager told that when I am available this week, I have confirmed my
availability on 1st of next month and 31 post half of this month. She said that
she will confirm by the end of the day.

## End

I don't think I have achieved enough. I could have done better Today. I think
this is only because of my too much attention to mobile phone and Twitter. If I
will not avoid it now, it can became a culprit in future.


## Tomorrow

* Passport interview in morning
