---
layout: post
title: "Day 9909"
date: "2019-08-06 13:44:51 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - moun_vrat
  - programming
---

## Morning

I woke up at 10:30 AM. Such late morning was because I was slept late Yesterday
night.

### Moun vrat

After waking up, as I have decided Yesterday night, I kept a moun vrat Today. So
far until now, I have broke it 1-2 times and I have spoke very few words. This
is nice because I am doing this after many years. I don't have practice of
avoiding speaking.

## First half

I tried to solve three problems back to back. I forced my self to solve one in
25 minutes. If I am unable to solve it in 25 minutes then I move myself to a
next problem. I will try to solve solve 4 problems back to back, but Today I
solved 3.

Below were problems I tried to solve over board:

1. [Coin Change][coin_change] which is Medium category problem
2. [House Robber][house_robber] which is Easy category problem
3. [Valid Parenthesis][valid_parenthesis] which is Medium category problem

I was unsuccessful in solving any of them. Thanks to this pattern I am able to
evaluate myself better. Previously I was only trying to solve a problem and
tried to count a time, but in an interview they don't provide me infinite amount
of time to solve any problem. In my past experience, I hardly have 20 minutes to
solve any problem in an interview.

One more thing I realised is that after solving one problem I was taking break.
Whereas in interview I was forced to solve 2-3 problem in 45 minutes. To prepare
my self for this situation, I am solved 3 problems back to back. I will try to
solve 4 problems back to back. I am not sure the way I am following is correct
or not. I will try to follow this way for one week and I will measure my daily
progress, improvements to check an outcome of this approach.


## Second half

### API for pushing daily Stock exchange API

In an interview there will be 3-4 questions or there can be even more on
Algorithm and Data structure. After that there will be a round of System Design,
Object Oriented Programming, Design Patterns questions. To practice myself for
this pattern, I solved this problem.

I tried to solve this problem with two ways. One common thing between both of
them is GET API. Each client will request an API endpoint by passing a stock-id
and that endpoint will return a stock. My two approaches are different in
calculating a statistics of stock.

One way is to solve this is compute statics of requested stock and store it in a
cache. This cache should expire with-in one day period. Doing this, every second
request for same stock will be returned fast.

Second way is totally different than my first approach. We can fire event when
record of stock is updated or created. One process will be listener to this
event. This process will follow below flow chart.

1. If there is no stock statics then it will create it. Go to next step.

2. If given stock price is higher than stored stock price, then update a high of
   a day. Go to next step.

3. If given stock price is lower than stored stock price, then update a low of a
   day. Go to next step.
4. Update end stock price value.

This approach will constantly maintain a process in background for updating
stock values, but pulse point is that we don't have to compute anything when
stock statistics is requested by client.


Third approach which was in my mind, but because of time constrain I was not
able to solve is schedule process which will run as soon as stock market is
about to shutdown. This process will pre-compute existing values and listen for
some last minutes updates and offload computed result to in-memory cache. All
API calls read values from cache as if it was reading in first approach.


### One more pomodoro for unsolved problems

I assigned another half an hour to all three problems. During this time, I was
near to get accepted solution for [Coin Change][coin_change] and [House
Robber][house_robber] problem, but I my solutions were not able to get accepted
by Leetcode. I was able to solve [Valid Parenthesis][valid_parenthesis] problem.
I am happy that at least I solved one problem Today.

I didn't tried for writing a Github solutions for them. May be I can plan
weekend for this activity, but I am not sure here.


### Coach conversation

Coach told me that I should aim to solve 6 to 10 problems in a day. If I will
reach at that level, then and then I will be able to hire from a company. I had
assumed to solve 3 or 4 in a day, but it is almost double than my estimation. He
said 6 hours constant solving and 1 hour of break I am allowed to take.

On asking about a method to solve this questions he said, "You should stop
solving problems on board. 10 problems a day is only possible if you will solve
them on Leetcode." I am trying to solve these problems on board and then if I
have time I try to solve them on Leetcode.

So from tomorrow, I will try to solve at least 6 question in a day. If I am
unable to solve them, I will move to next question.


### Reliance JIO

An engineer of Reliance JIO called me and asked some random questions on API and
storage and framework. All questions were felt like college viva. All of them
were base less. He said I have cleared every round and I will receive an offer
from HR. I have to join at Bengalore office only, but I have to visit Mumbai
branch every 1-2 month. He also mentioned that I should be open for solving
problems in different languages and not be limited to any specific language or
framework.

I will request handsome salary from them. If they will give, only then and then
I will join them.


### Amazon interview

Rodger told me that I have already assigned a task from one of the Amazon
recruiter. This Amazon India recruiters are nonsense fellows. I had clearly told
them that I have already assigned my self for Hyderabad test, but he said that
it will not conflict with my present opportunity. Because of this reason, I told
them to move forward with me. And now Rodger requested me that I am able to give
only one of them and not both. I am not sure what to do now. The software
developer online assessment test I have received has no contact details in it.
For that reason I am unable to contact them back. Tomorrow I will try to find
her over LinkedIN and will ping her.

I will compare both roles with each other. I will choose whichever is at higher
designation and good team.


## Result of my today mock interview

I am poorly failed Today. From 3 Data structure and Algorithm questions, I was
not able to solve them any in 1 hour and 30 minutes. Two problems were unsolved
even after giving 25 minutes to each of them.

I performed average in System design question. All system design question has
requirement of number of concurrent requests. I am unable to evolve my
architecture according to expected scale. This is because I have never faced
anything with such scale or improved any code for managing large number of
concurrent requests. Simple solution to solve this problem is to learn load and
performance testing tools and techniques and then actually test your developed
code for expected scale. Improve your architecture to mate requirements of
system. This can be time-consuming and slow process. At present I will only read
guidance given at Cracking the coding interview book.


## Tomorrow

* Tomorrow I will solve below 6 problems from Leetcode

  I. [Integer to Roman][integer_to_roman]
  II. [Longest substring without repeating
  characters][longest_substring_without_repeating_characters]
  III. [Evaluate-Division][evaluate-division]
  IV. [House Robber-III][house_robber_iii]
  V. [Implement Trie Prefix Tree][implement_trie_prefix_tree]
  VI. [Counting Bits][counting_bits]

* Problem statement number 2 from Cracking Coding Interview book as a System
  design question.


[coin_change]: https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/
[house_robber]: https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/
[valid_parenthesis]: https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parenthesis-string/
[integer_to_roman]: https://leetcode.com/problems/integer-to-roman/
[longest_substring_without_repeating_characters]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/
[evaluate-division]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/
[house_robber_iii]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/
[implement_trie_prefix_tree]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/
[counting_bits]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/
