---
layout: post
title: "Day 9942"
date: "2019-09-07 21:54:36 +0530"
tags:
  - hotstar_tec
  - dgraph
  - mayadata
  - hackerrank
  - farrary
---

## Morning

I woke at 8.30 AM. I slept around 2:45 AM Yesterday night. I was yelling like a
hell. I quickly rushed to Hotstar office. I skipped bath.


## First half

### Go lang Meetup

First talk was from Employee of Hostar named Sanjay Singh. He was working on
recommendation engine of Hotstar. He gave a talk explaining higher order
functions in Go lang.  Higher order functions are decorators in Python.

After that Francesc gave talk in which he demonstrated Dgraph database. Dgraph
is a graph data base similar to Neo4J etc. Francesc has experienced working at
Google, San Francisco office. In his talk he mentioned many times that Dgraph is
hiring engineers.

Manish is a CEO and founder of DGraph DB. He is having a great experience of
working at Google as an software engineer. He lives also lives at San Francisco.
He gave a talk after Francesc. He explained how they designed high performance
cache system named Ristretto.

I am impressed with DGraph and its team. Tomorrow I will prepare a mail
explaining reasons why DGraph should hire me as their software engineer.

I had aural conversation with Vanitha who is working under recruitment team of
Hotstar. She said that I should go throw open positions in which I am interested
and then I should revert back to her. She also mentioned that at Hotstar there
are individual recruiter who are working with dedicated teams. I should be
specific in knowing whom to contact.

Rohan Gupta has told me that he will refer me at RedHat.


### Ferrari

While coming back from meetup, I observed red Ferrari and Bentley parked at
basement parking. It was fucking awesome to observe Ferrari. I have never seen
it before.


## Second half

I came back to co-working space again. I pushed working solution for "Sum Lists"
problem and "Magic Index" problem. Both were from Cracking the coding interview
book.

I rushed to collect my passport from SVS globals.

Then I solved one easy category problem of Array and one medium category problem
of Linked List from Hackerrank. I was able to solve them under 15 minutes.

I tried to solve one medium category problem on Trees. The definition was to
print top view of binary tree. In given example it was unclear that when child
elements expand and their root does not, is tree visible from top view or not.
Tomorrow I will find similar problem from Leetcode and will try to solve it in
given time constraint.


## Tomorrow

* Write mail to CEO Manish explaining reasons they should hire you in their
  team.
* Find problem Top view of Binary Tree from Leetcode and solve it.
* Solve One system design question from Cracking the coding interview.
* Prepare for Amazon principle from given resource.
* Solve each problem of Data structure category from Hackerrank.
* Solve Stack min by storing minimum elements in a stack.
* Solve Route between nodes problem with Breadth first search approach.
* Solve Game of Stone problem using Dynamic Programming approach.
* Email NoCodez that you will not be able to attend their interview invitation.
* Email Locale.ai regarding asking status of their funding rounds etc.
* Complete each easy category problem of Data structure category from
Hackerrank.
* Continue solving 1 problem from interview preparation kit from Hackerrank.
* Prepare for one leadership principle of Amazon. Take your notes.
* Learn what is MapReduce and how it is used.
* Solve Leetcode's "SQRTX" problem and "valid perfect square" problem.
* Solve "Root of numbers" problem of Pramp.
* Solve next System Design problem from Cracking the Coding interview book.
* Solve one Object oriented question from Cracking the Coding interiview book.

