---
layout: post
title: "Day 9903"
date: "2019-07-31 22:31:51 +0530"
tags:
  - passport_interview
  - daily
  - relince_jio
  - commercial_iq
  - amazon
  - o4s
---

## Morning

I woke up at 8.00 AM. I did Twitter a bit, and dressed up myself for Passport
renewal interview.

## First Half

### Passport interview

Passport seva kendra has no indications. Even if you are a tatkal candidate,
guards at entrance will treat you like a normal candidate. My reporting time was
9.30 AM. I stood in a queue for entering into office, when my turn came, guard
told me that I should wait for next round. I waited, came after another 10
minutes. After entering into a office, there were around 6 counters and long
queues in-front of all of them. I stood in a queue for almost 20 minutes.
Somehow my queue was progressing slow. After such time I realized that there was
one door labeled as "Tatkal". I saw people were entering into that door. I went
there from my queue and informed guard that I have applied for tatkal category.
So he allowed me to enter into that door and indicated to visit some counter too
far. I wasted my half an hour outside. There were lot of people. I was getting a
feeling of any busy Railway station of India.

After going into tatkaal section, I was instructed to show all of my original
documents and self attested photo copies of it. Representative took copy of
rental agreement, photo passbook along with last three pages of statement copy,
Adhar card, Degree certificate of my Masters degree, PAN card, Old passport and
one ANNEXTURE E. ANNEXTURE E is a form I had to purchase from a counter doing a
photo copy service. Yes, there was photo copy service inside. If you forgot to
take any photocopies then you can go to that section and do it by paying money
according to individual copies.

Once my documents were collected and checked I was requested to wait almost 45
minutes. She said when my name will be called, I have to go and collect my token
paper. It indeed took nearly 50 minutes to call my name! After that, things went
fast. I was assigned a two character token number in which first was latter 'T'
and last was two digit number. Later 'T' was representing a Tatkal application
type.

Applicant was processed in 'A', 'B' and 'C' total three stages. When your token
is displayed on screen, you have to visit that counter number. Each category was
having sub counters. Sub-counters were named like 'A23', 'B13'. Large TV screens
were displaying Applicant's token number and counter number he/she has to visit.

Officer at Section 'A' took scanned copies of my documents and uploaded to their
system. Then she told me to verify my details. I was allowed to change if there
was any. Then she took my photo on still camera. All counters were having
individual still cameras attached with them. Once procedure was done, I was
instructed to pay 2000 rs which was remaining fee and 50 rs more if I want to
get a SMS update for my passport status. I took a service of SMS by paying 50 rs
in cash.

After that I visited section 'B'. In section 'B' officer verified my original
documents. She identified that my rent agreement was not having signature of two
witnesses. I wasn't aware of it. No body pointed out this mistake before. Even
notary lawyer didn't asked for anything. I was lucky that original photo
passbook of bank I was carrying. She observed my that and decided to move
forward my application.

After that I visited section 'C'. In section 'C', officer verified my documents
again. And that's it. I was told that everything is done and I can leave now.

As soon as I exited I got an SMS that my passport is in printing. After first
half I received a SMS indicating that my passport is printed. At end of the day,
I received a Speed post tracking ID and informed that my passport is dispatched.
I have received an acknowledgement over email for my application. Officer
sitting at counter 'C' told me that I will receive passport in two days.

There is only one glitch now, police verification. In my receipt it is written
that I have to complete the police verification. After reading FAQ, it was
mentioned my type of police verification is post police verification in which my
passport will be issued to me first and them police will do a verification. This
verification will be done at my current address. I don't know what will happen
with this process, I hope this will also complete without any issues.


## Second Half


### Relince JIO assignment

I spent my entire time in completing assignment given by Relince JIO. It took
way longer than I expected. I hope they will like my assignment.


### O4S interview

Third and I believe last round of interview was suppose to be conducted today by
CTO of O4s. It was scheduled at 5 PM today. I was waiting and at 05:05 PM I
received a call from HR that their CTO is in meeting so If I agree this has to
be postponed to 7 PM.

I was waiting again at 7 PM. I waited for more than half hour and later I
received a text message from HR that CTO can't join. If I am happy she have to
take this Tomorrow at same time. I replied just 'Okay'. I am confused at this
stage that I should move forward with this company or not. One can't be
irresponsible like this.


### Commercial IQ

HR was positive and asked me to provide my availability and then I didn't
received anything from her. I tried to ask her over email, but I didn't received
any response from her. I called her in noon time and she didn't picked up my
call. Didn't even bothered to reply anything. I called second time in evening
time and thank to god she picked up my call. I told her that I didn't heard back
from her. She told me that they are confused because I have an experience with
Python and they are expecting someone stronger in Object Oriented skills. So she
said that they are confused. I explained her that I have developed my OOP skills
and I am an Engineer. I have tried to not be limited with any programming
language. Actually she is right her. She or someone from her team has correctly
identified me, but I can't agree anyone on this. Especially with any HR. She
said she will let me know, but from her response I don't think I will herd back
from her again.


### Some AI company

They showed an interest at Angle List. They requested me to share my profile and
contact details. Their representative called me today, asked me my interest to
visit their company which is located at JP nagar. I told I can available on next
Monday. If he agrees, he has to send an invitation to me over email.


### Amazon recruiter

I received an email from Amazon recruiter regarding first online assessment. The
mail has requested me to select a date to get a link of an interview. I was
having a choice to select this Friday or next Friday. Because it was Amazon, I
selected next Friday so that I can prepare a bit. The test will have 2 data
structure questions and one programming / sql / oop related question. I have to
solve them in 90 minutes. That mail was referencing Leetcode and Codechef
problems to practice. I will try my best to do a preparation for it.


### oky assignment

Coach has assigned me to write my own Stack, Queue, Linked list, Hash Table,
Hash Tree and Binary Tree data structures. This is a good assignment. I will
learn further about these structures.


## End

Tough day! Passport Seva kendra and this O4S CTO and Twitter took my productive
hours. I am sure, I have to stop using Twitter now. I don't know what will
happen Tomorrow. Hope something good will happen someday.
