---
layout: post
title: "Day 9905"
date: "2019-08-03 00:12:17 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - zope_interfaces
  - ethindia
---

The day was a waste. I woke up early and rushed to conference. The conference
was actually a good conference. I found block chain has lot of applicability
and lot of new and flashy startups are into that market. I would expect a
better food from the conference.

Entire day, I tried various things about `zope.interface` module.

I learnt something interesting Today. When any class implement an interface
then it is an instance of that class which will implement or follow with
methods defined at interface.

```python
class ILinkedList(zope.interface.Interface):

    def insert(key):
        pass

    def delete(value):
        pass


@zope.interface.Implements(ILinkedList)
class SinglyLinkedList:
    pass
```

I am not sure to provide any interface for classes. The signatures defined at an
interface do not contain an default first instance variable because they are
creating an implementation contract for instance of a class which implements it,
but not a class who is implementing an interface.

If our goal is to declare a proceeder which creates an instance of class then
instead of declaring a signature for `__init__()`, we have to declare using
`__call__()` method.

Example

```python

class IFactoryNode(zope.interface.Interface):

  def __call__(key: Key, value: Any):
    pass

  def insert(key: Key, value: Any):
    pass
```

Normally, it is a responsibility of Factory to create an instance of Class. We
can define an interface for Factory and then create a concrete implementation of
Factory method.

I am unsure how we should verify interface integrity. The library documentation
of Zope.interface provides one example of verifying using
`zope.interface.verify.verifyObject()`. To verify that the given class
implements expected methods or not is achieved with
`zope.interface.verify.verifyClass()`.

Smalltalk is pure object oriented language and Haskell is pure functional
programming language. I should use any of them to learn respective paradigms. I
don't think any of them has large community driven packaging and frameworks.

Tomorrow

* Press clothes
* Take passport from Office
* Check Police verification online
