---
layout: post
title: "Day 9908"
date: "2019-08-05 16:55:30 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - commerce_iq
  - failure
---

## Morning

I woke up at 9.30 AM. I folded my washed clothes, ironed my formal pair of shirt
and pent. Didn't got a time to do breakfast.


## First Half

### Reliance JIO

I was suppose to have a call with an Engineer from Relince JIO to discuss on my
project at 11.00 AM, but I didn't received any call from him nor did I receive
any email informing me regarding post ponding schedule. Before a few minutes, I
initiated an email with him asking reason to respond. He told that he replied by
saying that I have to give any time of second half of Tomorrow. This is
something poor. I could not expect such poor behaviour from Relince JIO team.
This proves how much irresponsible they are. I have not decided anything or this
point, but I will think before making any concrete decision with them.


## Second half


### Commerce IQ interview

I was having an interview with Commerce IQ Today at 12:00 PM. An interview was
having three rounds. First round was Data structure and Algorithm round. I was
not able to clear this initial round and rejected after two type of tests.

First was face to face Algorithm and Data structure round. In this round an
interviewer asked me below questions.

First question in this round was to find a perfect square from given N x M
binary matrix. I have to return starting position and size of my square.

Example

  0 1 1
  1 1 0
  1 1 1
  1 1 1

In above example, perfect square of 2 x 2 is from elements starting from (1, 0),
(1, 1), (2, 0) and (2, 1). I have to return left-top coordinate and size of
square matrix.

I am not sure I was appropriately able to explain my approach. I didn't went for
anything fancy at first, but I tried to solve this with a brute force approach.
In my approach, I will iterate on each positions of Matrix one by one. That is
starting from (0, 0) to (N-1, M-1). If that element is 0 then I will ignore it.
If it is 1 then I will call a sub function which will iterate on all elements
from left to right for checking it is perfect square or not.

I was not able to explain this solution correctly. Even I am not sure my this
approach was working or not. When my interviewer tried me to explain my this
approach before start writing a code for it, I felt I was unclear with my this
solution. In short, I have fucked up in simple problem like this in 15 to 20
minutes.

After this question, my interviewer asked me second question. Given binary
search tree, two nodes are not into their perfect position. Your responsibility
is to find their two imperfect nodes and swap them with each other to make
Binary Search Tree perfect.

This was looking a simple at first glance. My quick observation was If I
reconstruct a given binary search tree by iterating on each nodes, then I am
able to get perfect binary search tree as a result of it. This was obviously a
poor solution because this was iterating O(N) as a time-complexity and
reconstructing entire binary search tree, into memory which leads to have O(N)
as a storage memory.

I invest rest of my time trying to figure out some pattern to solve this
problem, but I was not able to find any before an interviewer decided to
terminate it.

I was clearly expecting a rejection at that point. I don't think I was even able
to perform little positive. Despite performing such poorly, a HR came and
instructed me to share my email address for a Hacker Earth test. I was little
confused that why they are interested in investing more time on me.

That test was 1 hour and 30 minutes long test. There were 3 questions that I had
to answer as a part of this test. Each of them were having points to it. First
was for 10 points, second was for 20 points and third was for 30 points.

I first tried to skim them. It wasn't looking too hard except last one, but I
wasn't able to solve perfectly any of them.

First question was given a various strings, my job is to separate them with
spaces, but I have to consider a string with quotes as a one unit. I can't split
them. For example a string 'adg bb wer "asdf asdb ddd" a' has to be splatted as
[adg, bb, wer, "asdf asdb ddd", a].

I followed a simple approach in which I start iterating each character using a
while loop. In that loop I collect each character on sub string and offload that
sub string into collection of strings when space is found. If present character
is a double quote, then I loop and collect each character until second double
quote is found. When second double quote is found, I offload that sub string
into a parent string. This was clearly looking like a working solution, still
one test case was failing out of four. The HackerEarth do not display inputs of
test cases. I think it is to increase a level difficulty to one more level. This
question was of 10 points. I got 7 out of 10 for this problem.

Second question was given a sequence of node positions in which "L" represents
first level left node, "-" represents root node and "R" represents first level
right node, find that is it possible to construct a perfect binary tree or not.
If there is any node which do not have a parent node in node sequence then it
should be considered that it is not possible to construct a perfect binary tree
from it.

In my approach I first collected each node in a Hash Set. Then I constructed a
recursive function which takes this collection and starts from checking child of
a root node. This function first checks that "L" and "R" are present in nodes or
not. If one of them is present then it will call same function with prefix of
"L" and "R" respectively. If I elaborate this, it will check for a presence of
"LL" and "LR" and for right it will check for a presence of "RL" and "RR". If
both are not present then it means that it will consider that it parent is a
leaf node and it will return True.

This passed for more than half of test cases, but it didn't managed to pass all
of them. My score here was 13 out of 20 points.

Third question was given a sequence of post-order traversal, return in-order
traversal in which value of each node is a sum of value of its parent and
itself. For example, 1, 7, 12, 3, 16 is an input then expected output is 13, 28,
19, 16, 19.

To explain this problem further, I will explain this problem with example.
According to given in-order traversal, below should be an actual binary tree.

       16

   12      3

1      7

Now in-order traversal of this is 1, 12, 7, 16, 3. And in-order traversal with
sum is 12 (1 + 12), 28 (12 + 16), 19 (7 + 12), 16 (16), 19 (3 + 16).

I created a procedures to find parent, left and right of current node via array
index. From my paperwork, I could see that if I swap code of calculating left
with parent then I will be able to achieve my goal. This question took around 30
minutes, but still I was not able to solve it.

So this is how I fucked up myself here. As a part of improvement, I have decided
to solve each question in 20 minutes. I will not invest more than 20 minutes to
solve any question. If I am not able to solve any question in 20 minutes, then I
will move to next question. I will do this in round robin fashion to solve as
many questions as possible. This minutes includes white board code or code
written at Leetcode. I am not sure, how will I be able to collect these
questions at my repository. May be offloading them daily is a right idea.
