---
layout: post
title: "Day 9879"
date: "2019-07-07 21:28:10 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - debian
  - packaging
---

## Morning and First half

I spent almost 1 hour watching Kapil sharma videos and few other videos today
morning. Because there was no water, I decided to skip bath. I had a video call
with my Fiance about 1 hour and 15 minutes of telephonic conversation with my
parents. Decided to went Third wave cafe around 2 PM.


## Second half

I decided to learn Debian packaging. I found Debian community has one dedicated
wiki page referencing good resources for learning packaging. I read one slide
from it.

I am using Gentoo as my primary distribution. For packaging anything for Debian
you will require a Debian machine having root access. I use `Vagrant` for this
kind of purposes. When I tried to launch a new vagrant instance, it was broken
by Ruby version error. I tried to share my trace back at `#gnetoo-chat` and
`#gentoo`, but didn't got any responses. I will try to ask again tomorrow.

Then I had a second thought of running a container and firing mentioned commands
from that tutorial inside a Debian container. So far it worked for a while but
suddenly it gave a no space left error. Docker containers are limited in size.
Rather than increasing container size, I decided to wait for any answers from
the community.

I completed pending ThoughtWorks survey. This survey was given in response to my
application. ThoughtWorks is doing one free event on hiring on 26th July. I have
submitted the form of it and will try to attend it.

Then I completed Amazon form. This form was also requested in response to my
application.

My tutorial talk "Untwisting Twisted" has been selected at Pycon Taiwan 2019!
This Pycon is happening in 20 and 21 of September. I don't have non-expired
passport. I will have to re-activate it first and then learn about visa
procedures.

Vijay Kumar instructed to add dedicated time to each section of my workshop
outline. He also instructed me to share a content material that I will
demonstrate as a part of proposal. Then he requested to share the exercises that
I will give in my workshop. I have updated rest of the details except the
exercises. During my Bangpypers workshop, I was unable to get a time to assign a
exercises to attendees. I requested Viajay to provide bunch of exercises later.

Local sh told me that they have done lot of hiring during this June and they are
now looking forward for senior devs. Their hiring manager said I should reply
back if I am interested.

Boom rang commerce has instructed me to apply via Job vit page of them. I
applied over there. This was the company recommended by Raghunandan.

Karan (fellow I met at Third wave cafe) told Kiran (jack) of HasGeek is looking
for someone to work on his job platform. He said he can pay around 1 lakh per
month. I can look at it and decide to work part-time on it.

## Tomorrow

I will try to solve that problem of vagrant. If it will start then I will go for
learning `dh` utility of Debian. I don't know how much time will it take to
learn Debian packaging.
