---
layout: post
title: "Day 9946"
date: "2019-09-12 00:02:46 +0530"
tags:
  - data_wire
  - hackerrank
  - unproductive
  - goscale
---

## Morning

I woke up around 9:30 AM. After waking up, I coded ["sort
anagrams"](https://github.com/ultimatecoder/cracking_the_coding_interview/pull/9)
problem from Cracking the coding interview book. Then I rushed to co-working
space quickly.

## First half

It was fucking unproductive day. I was only able to solve 2 problems Today. I am
not sure, but this can be because all of them were medium level difficulty.

[Max Array Sum](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/max-array-sum/problem)
this problem took all of my energy. I was feeling weak because I was not able to
solve this problem. In this problem I have to generate all subsets in which
elements are not adjacent of each other. I tried by nested looping way, but very
soon I realized it was not going in a right direction and it was looking fuzzy.

Then I decided to read my old backtracking code. When I opened, I found non of
my backtracking code at place. I then started reading Backtracking chapter from
Programming challenges book. I was lost, despite doing same thing back, I was
not able to even generate sub sets of given set. This was total confusing.

Extrema headache was there. This can be because of my less sleep.

## Second half


I took late evening nap. It helped me to refresh my mind. I think I should start
taking noon naps just to refresh my mind.

Goscale has scheduled an interview with me at 6:00 AM, but they didn't called
me. I tried to reach their HR, but even she didn't picked my calls. Lately I
received a call from her. She apologized and told me to give my availability
tomorrow. If I will clear this round, then I will be invited to on-site
interview round on this Saturday.

Because my interview was cancelled, I tried to practice some Graph questions. I
tried o solve [Roads and
Libraries](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/torque-and-development)
problem. I was kind of lost in this. I don't know, but this was looking too
difficult problem for me. I tried to think in different way, finally I decided
to review Graph algorithms from Introduction to Algorithm book and ask regarding
this at IRC.

Most of the time, Hackerrank medium category questions are not involving
something difficult. According to one geek at ##algorithms, I can solve this
problem by simple DFS or BFS method. After reading his reply, I tried to think
on that approach too, but it didn't lead to any conclusion.

Tomorrow I will fight for medium category Hackerrank questions. I have to apply
existing resources. I will try to revise things and re-apply it.

Subham has invited me for Data wire position of Software Engineer. I got an
email invitation from HR of Data wire that she need to talk with me regarding
opening at Data wire. This conversation should aim half an hour. This is going
similar to what Canadian company to which I was interviewed way back.

From my Today's unproductively, I am realizing that sleep is an important
factor. If you are taking less sleep than your day is simply un-productive. My
eyes was felt streested, brain was even facing difficulty to function properly.
Tomorrow I will try my best to complete my sleep cycles.


## Tomorrow

* I will revise backtracking problems. I will revise how to generate sub sets of
given sets.

* Tomorrow I will give test of Air Asia first. I have to complete this test any
how by tomorrow.

* Tomorrow I have to complete Booking.com test.
