---
layout: post
title: "Day 9910"
date: "2019-08-07 11:50:12 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Morning

I slept at almost 1:00 AM and woke at around 10:15 AM. I am late Today, this is
because I slept late Yesterday night. After waking up I tried to place an order
for some Amazon items, took bath and had delicious Idli and Vada in brunch.


## First half

I tried to solve 6 data structure and algorithm problem and one system design
queestion as I had decided Yesterday. I assigned dedicated 25 minutes of time to
each of them. I tried to solve it on board. In this section I will try to
demonstrate my approach for solving them.

### Integer to Roman problem

At first observation, this problem was not looking too hard to me. Entire half
and hour I spent on figuring out underlying pattern to construct roman character
string.

From my understanding of roman number, 5 and 10 are represented differently.

### Counting bits

I spent entire 25 minutes figuring out any pattern for finding ones.


### Longest Substring without repeating characters

I was able to write a brute force solution for this approach on board. My that
code might take more computations, but I was unable to improve my solution
further. May be I went on a wrong direction from which I can't improve my
solution.

### Evaluate Division

I was completely lost on this problem. I haven't solved any problem like this
before. After reading topic tags of this problem, I found this problem is solved
using Graphs. I considered this as a hint and tried to draw a graph from given
inputs.


### Implement Trie (Prefix Tree)

I was able to solve this problem on board. I was recently studying Trie.


### House Robber III

I spent entire 25 minutes figuring out any pattern to solve this problem.
Couldn't able to write any code for this.


### Design Social Network data structure and algorithm

In this problem I was just able to draw a UML of friend and user that's it. I
was confused weather to use Dijekstra's shortest path finding algorithm or not.


## Second half

I was able to get accepted solution for [Implement Trie (Prefix
Tree)][implement_trie_prefix_tree] and [Longest Substring without repeating
characters][longest_substring_without_repeating_characters]. I spent another 1
hour trying to solve [Counting Bits][counting_bits] problem. I am able to solve
this in my mind and on paper, but I am unable to came up with working coding
solution for this problem. I hav very few energy left now for working Today.

If I review my progress, 6 out of 1 problem was perfectly solved on board. 1
problem was looking like it was solved but I did a little mistake, so I would
say I solved it half. In system design question, I fucked up in finding better
algorithm for finding shortest path, so I will consider it unsolved.

I failed Today in my interview. I have to work hard.


## Tomorrow

* I will solve below Data structure and Algorithm questions

 1. [Remove Nth Node from end of List](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-nth-node-from-end-of-list/)
 2. [String to integer](https://leetcode.com/problems/string-to-integer-atoi/)
 3. [Surrounded Regions](https://leetcode.com/problems/surrounded-regions/)
 4. [Design Circular Queue](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-circular-queue/)
 5. [Range Sum Query Mutable](https://leetcode.com/problems/range-sum-query-mutable/)
 6. [Validate Binary Search Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/validate-binary-search-tree/)

 * Tomorrow I will solve 3rd System Design problem from Cracking the Coding
   interview.

[implement_trie_prefix_tree]: https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-trie-prefix-tree/
[longest_substring_without_repeating_characters]: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/
[counting_bits]: https://leetcode.com/problems/counting-bits/
