---
layout: post
title: "Day 9895"
date: "2019-07-23 09:15:34 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - inversion_of_control
---

## Morning

I woke up around 7.30 AM. Then I did half an hour of Twitter.


## First half


### Inversion control and Dependency injection

I am too much tired to write this. I will explain this tomorrow with an
example.


### Passport re-issue

My appointment of passport was scheduled for tomorrow, but I rescheduled it for
31st of this month. Yes, it is possible to re-schedule your appointment even if
you have booked tactual. You can re-schedule it for 2 times.


#### Non-ECR category

This category is used for allowing to avoid emigration check. For this category,
one has to submit certificate of highest education degree. And he/she also have
to submit Matric or HSC certificate or School leaving certificate or Birth
certificate.


I was lately realize that I have to present any document supporting my claim to
be in NON-ECR category.

Until 31st, bank will also update my address in passbook so that I will be able
to re-present that as my proof.


## Second half

### Competitive programming with Arjun co-working space

I asked him to find Kth largest element from a stream of numbers. He was not
able to go further and came with a very lam approach of storing each and every
element in a list and sorting it each time new element is added to it.

He asked me below question:

Given N x N matrix, find there are how many ways to go from top-left (0, 0) to
bottom right (N-1, N-1). You can only go one step left or one step right at a
time. I was in hurry, I tried to solve quickly. I haven't verified code I wrote
Yesterday. I will have to re-parse or confirm it again tomorrow.


### Washing machine

My new washing machine was installed by a representative from the Whirlpool. He
removed two screwes holding something attached to a motor and that's it. This
was a demo for him. He explained so many things to buy officially from the
Whirlpool like Detergent, liquid, stand etc.

He told that I should put my machine out side of Bathroom because there are
chances to get junked. He told I have to buy an extended version of pipe which
will pour water inside a machine. And the company stand is with wheels which are
lockable that also I have to buy to make my machine at a height.


## Tomorrow

* Ask passport call center that address name "Ramkrishna Mutt road" is valid
  against "Ramakrishna Mutt road" or not?

* Buy a cover for washing machine

* Buy a stand with wheels for Machine

* Book flight tickets to Bhuj
