---
layout: post
title: "Day 9824"
date: "2019-05-13 23:47:07 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Yoga class and a little running

I have lost my this routine. I am unable to sleep early and wake myself up
before 11 AM. I am aware that this is a wrong routine. Little excercise will
help my brain to concentrate better. I can't avoid coffee. It is too difficult
for me to stay away from coffee. In the region I am living, the tea maker makes
pathetic tea. It tasts poor. The only option is the drink coffee. While
learning algorithms and data structures I feel excausted after some time.
Coffee helps me to take a little break and focus back. If I switch to tea, then
I can try to regulate my coffee consumption. Tea is less harming my sleep than
a cup of coffee. I can try to make my own tea for the day. I can do it by
collecting it in a flask. The only issue was to clean the utensils.  The
boiling procedure of tea make the vessel dirty. I have to invest lot of efforts
to clean it.


## Saturday in less words

On Saturday evening, I was asked to solve [Sudoku][sudoku_problem] at
[Pramp][pramp]. The interviewer was a good person. I was clueless after reading
the problem. He helped me by giving hints regarding the problem. With the help
of him, I was able to make a little strucuture of the problem. The
[Sodoku][sudoku_problem] problem can be successfully solved by
[Backtracking][backtracking] method. Because I was not aware with this method,
I performed poor in that mock interview. I was learning [Dynamic
Programming][dynamic_programmin] at on Saturday. After that interview, I have
decided to learn [Backtracking][backtracking] first and then concentrate on
learning of [Dynamic Programming][dynamic_programming].

## Sunday

I didn't read a single word on last Sunday. I rome with my friend on his bike.
Watch a finals of IPL and slept well. Only one interesting thing happen on
Sunday. I requested my friend to give any problems that he found difficult to
solve. He gave me below problem.

```
Find the number of combinations where sum of values is formed by values smaller
than that value. Below are example

* 9 can be sum of (1+8), (2+7), (3+6), (4+5). The possible ways are 4.
* 10 can be sum of (1+9), ..., (4+6). So the possible ways are 4. Here we are
not counting values which are repeating. One number can't be repeated.

```

## First half

I tried learning Backtracking from [Programming
Challenges][programming_challenges] book. It has a dedicated chapter on
Backtracking in which the author describes what is the Backtracking and gives
relative examples of it. The given examples are in C programming language. I
have a deep love for C programming language, but it becomes extremely difficult
to digest a code. The examples are pathetically using variable names. I invest
a huge amount of time to digest the given code. Variable names "a", "k", "n"
are not readable at all!

My be it looks strange because I have spent enough time in Python. But I don't
think readable variable names should be limited with any programming language.

The initial example in that book is finding a possible combinations of set of
numbers. I was able to write an working equivalent code in Python.

```python
#! /usr/bin/env python


def is_a_solution(k, n):
    return k == n


def construct_candidates():
    candidates = [True, False]
    return candidates


def process_solutions(a, k):
    result = []
    for i in range(1, k+1):
        if a[i] is True:
            result.append(str(i))
    print(' '.join(result))


def generate_subsets(n):
    a = [None]
    backtrack(a, k=0, n=n)


def backtrack(a, k, n):

    if (is_a_solution(k, n)):
        process_solutions(a, k)
    else:
        k += 1
        ncandidates = construct_candidates()
        for ncandidate in ncandidates:
            try:
                a[k] = ncandidate
            except IndexError:
                a.append(ncandidate)
            backtrack(a, k, n)


if __name__ == "__main__":
  generate_subsets(3)
```

The above example prints possible subsets of {1, 2, 3}.

## Second Half

The example code for finding all the combinations of given number in a book was
pathetically unreadable. Variable names sucks! I lost my battle to write an
equivalent Python code for that example. There were a few more, but I decided to
learn Backtracking from any other source. I read a wikipedia article for it. It
was okay to read it. The method is not like any sorting algorithm for which you
find plenty of Pseudocodes. The wikipedia page was referencing [The art of
Computer Programming Volume 4b][art_of_computer_programming] for a chapter on
Backtracking. I tried finding a digital copy of the book, but ended with no
results. I found a digital copy of "Fundamentals of Algorithmics by Gilles
Brassard, Paul Bratley". The sub topic in that book was not describing anything
interesting. The wikipedia article quotes [CSE Ohio chapter][cse_ohio]. I read
initial paragraphs and it is okay to read it once. The GeeksforGeeks do not
describe anything about Backtracking. It just gives descriptions to couple of
problems. It is true that the solutions with this approach is different for each
and every problem. So now the only option was to solve a few problems of
Backtracking. I picked [Black and White][black_and_white] problem. Tomorrow I
will try to progress my solution. I will try to solve the Sudoku problem once I
will solve this problem. I have no experience with Backtracking. I will try to
verify my solutions by requesting people's from #emacs and ##algorithm.

The Programming challenges book is the only reliable resource to learn it, but
man the code written in C is pathetic.


[pramp]: https://www.pramp.com
[sudoku_problem]: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sudoku-backtracking-7/
[backtracking]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backtracking
[cse_ohio]: https://web.archive.org/web/20070317015632/http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/~gurari/course/cis680/cis680Ch19.html#QQ1-51-128
[black_and_white]: https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/black-and-white/0
